Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe

Opened for signature at Paris: 19 November 1990
 
Entered into force: 9 November 1992
 
Depositary: Government of The Netherlands
Number of Signatory States:	28
Number of States Parties:	30

The Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, Canada, the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Iceland, the Italian Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Kingdom of Norway, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of Turkey, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America, hereinafter referred to as the States Parties,
Guided by the Mandate for Negotiation on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe of January 10, 1989, and having conducted this negotiation in Vienna beginning on March 9, 1989,

Guided by the objectives and the purposes of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, within the framework of which the negotiation of this Treaty was conducted,

Recalling their obligation to refrain in their mutual relations, as well as in their international relations in general, from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any State, or in any other manner inconsistent with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,

Conscious of the need to prevent any military conflict in Europe,

Conscious of the common responsibility which they all have for seeking to achieve greater stability rity in Europe,

Striving to replace military confrontation with a new pattern of security relations among all the States Parties based on peaceful cooperation and thereby to contribute to overcoming the division of Europe,

Committed to the objectives of establishing a secure and stable balance of conventional armed forces in Europe at lower levels than heretofore, of eliminating disparities prejudicial to stability and security and of eliminating, as a matter of high priority, the capability for launching surprise attack and for initiating large-scale offensive action in Europe,

Recalling that they signed or acceded to the Treaty of Brussels of 1948, the Treaty of Washington of 1949 or the Treaty of Warsaw of 1955 and that they have the right to be or not to be a party to treaties of alliance,

Committed to the objective of ensuring that the numbers of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty within the area of application of this Treaty do not exceed 40,000 battle tanks, 60,000 armoured combat vehicles, 40,000 pieces of artillery, 13,600 combat aircraft and 4,000 attack helicopters,

Affirming that this Treaty is not intended to affect adversely the security interests of any State,

Affirming their commitment to continue the conventional arms control process including negotiations, taking into account future requirements for European stability and security in the light of political developments in Europe,

Have agreed as follows:
Article I

1. Each State Party shall carry out the obligations set forth in this Treaty in accordance with its provisions, including those obligations relating to the following five categories of conventional armed forces: battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft and combat helicopters.

2. Each State Party also shall carry out the other measures set forth in this Treaty designed to ensure security and stability both during the period of reduction of conventional armed forces and after the completion of reductions.

3. This Treaty incorporates the Protocol on Existing Types of Conventional Armaments and Equipment, hereinafter referred to as the Protocol on Existing Types, with an Annex thereto; the Protocol on Procedures Governing the Reclassification of Specific Models or Versions of Combat-Capable Trainer Aircraft Into Unarmed Trainer Aircraft, hereinafter referred to as the Protocol on Aircraft Reclassification; the Protocol on Procedures Governing the Reduction of Conventional Armaments and Equipment Limited by the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, hereinafter referred to as the Protocol on Reduction; the Protocol on Procedures Governing the Categorisation of Combat Helicopters and the Recategorisation of Multi-Purpose Attack Helicopters, hereinafter referred to as the Protocol on Helicopter Recategorisation; the Protocol on Notification and Exchange of Information, hereinafter referred to as the Protocol on Information Exchange, with an Annex on the Format for the Exchange of Information, hereinafter re ferred to as the Annex on Format; the Protocol on Inspection; the Protocol on the Joint Consultative Group; and the Protocol on the Provisional Application of Certain Provisions of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, hereinafter referred to as the Protocol on Provisional Application. Each of these documents constitutes an integral part of this Treaty.

Article II

1. For the purposes of this Treaty:

(A) The term "group of States Parties" means the group of States Parties that signed the Treaty of Warsaw [The Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Assistance signed in Warsaw, 14 May 1955.] 1955 consisting of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Poland, Romania and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, or the group of States Parties that signed or acceded to the Treaty of Brussels [The Treaty of Economic, Social and Cultural Collaboration and Collective Self-Defence signed in Brussels, 17 March 1948.] of 1948 or the Treaty of Washington [The North Atlantic Treaty signed in Washington, 4 April 1949.] of 1949 consisting of the Kingdom of Belgium, Canada, the Kingdom of Denmark, the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Iceland, the Italian Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Kingdom of Norway, the Portuguese Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America.

(B) The term "area of application" means the entire land territory of the States Parties in Europe from the Atlantic Ocean to the Ural Mountains, which includes all the European island territories of the States Parties, including the Faroe Islands of the Kingdom of Denmark, Svalbard including Bear Island of the Kingdom of Norway, the islands of Azores and Madeira of the Portuguese Republic, the Canary Islands of the Kingdom of Spain and Franz Josef Land and Novaya Zemlya of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. In the case of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the area of application includes all territory lying west of the Ural River and the Caspian Sea. In the case of the Republic of Turkey, the area of application includes the territory of the Republic of Turkey north and west of a line extending from the point of intersection of the Turkish border with the 39th parallel to Muradiye, Patnos, Karayazi, Tekman, Kemaliye, Feke, Ceyhan, Dogankent, Gozne and thence to the sea.

(C) The term "battle tank" means a self-propelled armoured fighting vehicle, capable of heavy firepower, primarily of a high muzzle velocity direct fire main gun necessary to engage armoured and other targets, with high cross-country mobility, with a high level of self-protection, and which is not designed and equipped primarily to transport combat troops. Such armoured vehicles serve as the principal weapon system of ground-force tank and other armoured formations.
Battle tanks are tracked armoured fighting vehicles which weigh at least 16.5 metric tonnes unladen weight and which are armed with a 360-degree traverse gun of at least 75 millimeters calibre. In addition, any wheeled armoured fighting vehicles entering into service which meet all the other criteria stated above shall also be deemed battle tanks.

(D) The term "armoured combat vehicle" means a self-propelled vehicle with armoured protection and cross-country capability. Armoured combat vehicles include armoured personnel carriers, armoured infantry fighting vehicles and heavy armament combat vehicles.
The term "armoured personnel carrier" means an armoured combat vehicle which is designed and equipped to transport a combat infantry squad and which, as a rule, is armed with an integral or organic weapon of less than 20 millimeters calibre.
The term "armoured infantry fighting vehicle"means an armoured combat vehicle which is designed and equipped primarily to transport a combat infantry squad, which normally provides the capability for the troops to deliver fire from inside the vehicle under armoured protection, and which is armed with an integral or organic cannon of at least 20 millimeters calibre and sometimes an antitank missile launcher. Armoured infantry fighting vehicles serve as the principal weapon system of armoured infantry or mechanized infantry or motorized infantry formations and units of ground forces.
The term "heavy armament combat vehicle" means an armoured combat vehicle with an integral or organic direct fire gun of at least 75 millimeters calibre, weighing at least 6.0 metric tonnes unladen weight, which does not fall within the definitions of an armoured personnel carrier, or an armoured infantry fighting vehicle or a battle tank.

(E) The term "unladen weight" means the weight of a vehicle excluding the weight of ammunition; fuel, oil and lubricants; removable reactive amour; spare parts, tools and accessories; removable snorkeling equipment; and crew and their personal kit.

(F) The term "artillery" means large calibre systems capable of engaging ground targets by delivering primarily indirect fire. Such artillery systems provide the essential indirect fire support to combined arms formations.
Large calibre artillery systems are guns, howitzers, artillery pieces combining the characteristics of guns and howitzers, mortars and multiple launch rocket systems with a calibre of 100 millimeters and above. In addition, any future large calibre direct fire system which has a secondary effective indirect fire capability shall be counted against the artillery ceilings.

(G) The term "stationed conventional armed forces" means conventional armed forces of a State Party that are stationed within the area of application on the territory of another State Party.

(H) The term "designated permanent storage site" means a place with a clearly defined physical boundary containing conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty, which are counted within overall ceilings but which are not subject to limitations on conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty in active units.

(I) The term "armoured vehicle launched bridge" means a self-propelled armoured transporter-launcher vehicle capable of carrying and, through built-in mechanisms, of emplacing and retrieving a bridge structure. Such a vehicle with a bridge structure operates as an integrated system.

(J) The term "conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty" means battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft and attack helicopters subject to the numerical limitations set forth in Articles IV, V and VI.

(K) The term "combat aircraft" means a fixed-wing or variable-geometry wing aircraft armed and equipped to engage targets by employing guided missiles, unguided rockets, bombs, guns, cannons, or other weapons of destruction, as well as any model or version of such an aircraft which performs other military functions such as reconnaissance or electronic warfare. The term "combat aircraft" does not include primary trainer aircraft.

(L) The term "combat helicopter" means a rotary wing aircraft armed and equipped to engage targets or equipped to perform other military functions. The term "combat helicopter" comprises attack helicopters and combat support helicopters. The term "combat helicopter" does not include unarmed transport helicopters.

(M) The term "attack helicopter" means a combat helicopter equipped to employ anti-amour, air-to-ground, or air-to-air guided weapons and equipped with an integrated fire control and aiming system for these weapons. The term "attack helicopter" comprises specialized attack helicopters and multi-purpose attack helicopters.

(N) The term "specialized attack helicopter" means an attack helicopter that is designed primarily to employ guided weapons.

(O) The term "multi-purpose attack helicopter" means an attack helicopter designed to perform multiple military functions and equipped to employ guided weapons.

(P) The term "combat support helicopter" means a combat helicopter which does not fulfill the requirements to qualify as an attack helicopter and which may be equipped with a variety of self-defense and area suppression weapons, such as guns, cannons and unguided rockets, bombs or cluster bombs, or which may be equipped to perform other military functions.

(Q) The term "conventional armaments and equipment subject to the Treaty" means battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft, primary trainer aircraft, unarmed trainer aircraft, combat helicopters, unarmed transport helicopters, armoured vehicle launched bridges, armoured personnel carrier look-alikes and armoured infantry fighting vehicle look-alikes subject to information exchange in accordance with the Protocol on Information Exchange.

(R) The term "in service," as it applies to conventional armed forces and conventional armaments and equipment, means battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft, primary trainer aircraft, unarmed trainer aircraft, combat helicopters, unarmed transport helicopters, armoured vehicle launched bridges, armoured personnel carrier look-a-likes and armoured infantry fighting vehicle look-alikes that are within the area of application, except for those that are held by organizations designed and structured to perform in peacetime internal security functions or that meet any of the exceptions set forth in Article III.

(S) The terms "armoured personnel carrier look-alike" and "armoured infantry fighting vehicle look-alike" mean an armoured vehicle based on the same chassis as, and externally similar to, an armoured personnel carrier or armoured infantry fighting vehicle, respectively, which does not have a cannon or gun of 20 millimeters calibre or greater and which has been constructed or modified in such a way as not to permit the transportation of a combat infantry squad. Taking into account the provisions of the Geneva Convention "For the Amelioration of the Conditions of the Wounded and Sick in Armed Forces in the Field" of 12 August 1949 that confer a special status on ambulances, armoured personnel carrier ambulances shall not be deemed armoured combat vehicles or armoured personnel carrier look-alike.

(T) The term "reduction site" means a clearly designated location where the reduction of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty in accordance with Article VIII takes place.

(U) The term "reduction liability" means the number in each category of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty that a State Party commits itself to reduce during the period of 40 months following the entry into force of this Treaty in order to ensure compliance with Article VII.

2. Existing types of conventional armaments and equipment subject to the Treaty are listed in the Protocol on Existing Types. The lists of existing types shall be periodically updated in accordance with Article XVI, paragraph 2, subparagraph (D) and Section IV of the Protocol on Existing Types. Such updates to the existing types lists shall not be deemed amendments to this Treaty.

3. The existing types of combat helicopters listed in the Protocol on Existing Types shall be categorized in accordance with Section I of the Protocol on Helicopter Recategorization.
Article III

1. For the purposes of this Treaty, the States Parties shall apply the following counting rules:

All battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft and attack helicopters, as defined in Article II, within the area of application shall be subject to the numerical limitations and other provisions set forth in Articles IV, V and VI, with the exception of those which in a manner consistent with a State Party's normal practices:

(A) are in the process of manufacture, including manufacturing-related testing;

(B) are used exclusively for the purposes of research and development;

(C) belong to historical collections;

(D) are awaiting disposal, having been decommissioned from service in accordance with the provisions of Article IX;

(E) are awaiting, or are being refurbished for, export or re-export and are temporarily retained within the area of application. Such battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft and attack helicopters shall be located elsewhere than at sites declared under the terms of Section V of the Protocol on Information Exchange or at no more than 10 such declared sites which shall have been notified in the previous year's annual information exchange. In the latter case, they shall be separately distinguishable from conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty;

(F) are, in the case of armoured personnel carriers, armoured infantry fighting vehicles, heavy armament combat vehicles or multi-purpose attack helicopters, held by organizations designed and structured to perform in peacetime internal security functions; or

(G) are in transit through the area of application from a location outside the area of application to a final destination outside the area of application, and are in the area of application for no longer than a total of seven days.

2. If, in respect of any such battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft or attack helicopters, the notification of which is required under Section IV of the Protocol on Information Exchange, a State Party notifies an unusually high number in more than two successive annual information exchanges, it shall explain the reasons in the Joint Consultative Group, if so requested.
Article IV

1. Within the area of application, as defined in Article II, each State Party shall limit and, as necessary, reduce its battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft and attack helicopters so that, 40 months after entry into force of this Treaty and thereafter, for the group of States Parties to which it belongs, as defined in Article II, the aggregate numbers do not exceed:

(A) 20,000 battle tanks, of which no more than 16,500 shall be in active units;

(B) 30,000 armoured combat vehicles, of which no more than 27,300 shall be in active units. Of the 30,000 armoured combat vehicles, no more than 18,000 shall be armoured infantry fighting vehicles and heavy armament combat vehicles; of armoured infantry fighting vehicles and heavy armament combat vehicles, no more than 1,500 shall be heavy armament combat vehicles;

(C) 20,000 pieces of artillery, of which no more than 17,000 shall be in active units;

(D) 6,800 combat aircraft; and

(E) 2,000 attack helicopters.

Battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles and artillery not in active units shall be placed in designated permanent storage sites, as defined in Article II, and shall be located only in the area described in paragraph 2 of this Article. Such designated permanent storage sites may also be located in that part of the territory of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics comprising the Odessa Military District and the southern part of the Leningrad Military District. In the Odessa Military District, no more than 400 battle tanks and no more than 500 pieces of artillery may be thus stored. In the southern part of the Leningrad Military District, no more than 600 battle tanks, no more than 800 armoured combat vehicles, including no more than 300 armoured combat vehicles of any type with the remaining number consisting of armoured personnel carriers, and no more than 400 pieces of artillery may be thus stored. The southern part of the Leningrad Military District is understood to mean the territory within that military 
district south of the line East-West 60 degrees 15 minutes northern latitude.

2. Within the area consisting of the entire land territory in Europe, which includes all the European island territories, of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark including the Faroe Islands, the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Hungary, the Italian Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic including the islands of Azores and Madeira, the Kingdom of Spain including the Canary Islands, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and that part of the territory of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics west of the Ural Mountains comprising the Baltic, Byelorussian, Carpathian, Kiev, Moscow and Volga-Ural Military Districts, each State Party shall limit and, as necessary, reduce its battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles and artillery so that, 40 months after entry into force of this Treaty and thereafter, for the group of States Parties to which it belongs the aggregate numbers do not exceed:

(A) 15,300 battle tanks, of which no more than 11,800 shall be in active units;
(B) 24,100 armoured combat vehicles, of which no more than 21,400 shall be in active units; and
(C) 14,000 pieces of artillery, of which no more than 11,000 shall be in active units.

3. Within the area consisting of the entire land territory in Europe, which includes all the European island territories, of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark including the Faroe Islands, the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Hungary, the Italian Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Poland, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and that part of the territory of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics comprising the Baltic, Byelorussian, Carpathian and Kiev Military Districts, each State Party shall limit and, as necessary, reduce its battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles and artillery so that, 40 months after entry into force of this Treaty and thereafter, for the group of States Parties to which it belongs the aggregate numbers in active units do not exceed:

(A) 10,300 battle tanks;
(B) 19,260 armoured combat vehicles; and
(C) 9,100 pieces of artillery; and
(D) in the Kiev Military District, the aggregate numbers in active units and designated permanent storage sites together shall not exceed:

(1) 2,250 battle tanks;
(2) 2,500 armoured combat vehicles; and
(3) 1,500 pieces of artillery.

4. Within the area consisting of the entire land territory in Europe, which includes all the European island territories, of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Hungary, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Republic of Poland, each State Party shall limit and, as necessary, reduce its battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles and artillery so that, 40 months after entry into force of this Treaty and thereafter, for the group of States Parties to which it belongs the aggregate numbers in active units do not exceed:

(A) 7,500 battle tanks;
(B) 11,250 armoured combat vehicles; and
(C) 5,000 pieces of artillery.

5. States Parties belonging to the same group of States Parties may locate battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles and artillery in active units in each of the areas described in this Article and Article V, paragraph 1, subparagraph (A) up to the numerical limitations applying in that area, consistent with the maximum levels for holdings notified pursuant to Article VII and provided that no State Party stations conventional armed forces on the territory of another State Party without the agreement of that State Party.

6. If a group of States Parties' aggregate numbers of battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles and artillery in active units within the area described in paragraph 4 of this Article are less than the numerical limitations set forth in paragraph 4 of this Article, and provided that no State Party is thereby prevented from reaching its maximum levels for holdings notified in accordance with Article VII, paragraphs 2, 3 and 5, then amounts equal to the difference between the aggregate numbers in each of the categories of battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles and artillery and the specified numerical limitations for that area may be located by States Parties belonging to that group of States Parties in the area described in paragraph 3 of this Article, consistent with the numerical limitations specified in paragraph 3 of this Article.
Article V

1. To ensure that the security of each State Party is not affected adversely at any stage:

(A) within the area consisting of the entire land territory in Europe, which includes all the European island territories, of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Iceland, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania, the part of the Republic of Turkey within the area of application and that part of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics comprising the Leningrad, Odessa, Transcaucasus and North Caucasus Military Districts, each State Party shall limit and, as necessary, reduce its battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles and artillery so that, 40 months after entry into force of this Treaty and thereafter, for the group of States Parties to which it belongs the aggregate numbers in active units do not exceed the difference between the overall numerical limitations set forth in Article IV, paragraph 1 and those in Article IV, paragraph 2, that is:

(1) 4,700 battle tanks;
(2) 5,900 armoured combat vehicles; and
(3) 6,000 pieces of artillery;

(B) notwithstanding the numerical limitations set forth in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, a State Party or States Parties may on a temporary basis deploy into the territory belonging to the members of the same group of States Parties within the area described in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph additional aggregate numbers in active units for each group of States Parties not to exceed:

(1) 459 battle tanks;
(2) 723 armoured combat vehicles; and
(3) 420 pieces of artillery; and

(C) provided that for each group of States Parties no more than one-third of each of these additional aggregate numbers shall be deployed to any State Party with territory within the area described in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, that is:

(1) 153 battle tanks;
(2) 241 armoured combat vehicles; and
(3) 140 pieces of artillery.

2. Notification shall be provided to all other States Parties no later than at the start of the deployment by the State Party or States Parties conducting the deployment and by the recipient State Party or States Parties, specifying the total number in each category of battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles and artillery deployed. Notification also shall be provided to all other States Parties by the State Party or States Parties conducting the deployment and by the recipient State Party or States Parties within 30 days of the withdrawal of those battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles and artillery that were temporarily deployed.
Article VI

With the objective of ensuring that no single State Party possesses more than approximately one-third of the conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty within the area of application, each State Party shall limit and, as necessary, reduce its battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft and attack helicopters so that, 40 months after entry into force of this Treaty and thereafter, the numbers within the area of application for that State Party do not exceed:

(A) 13,300 battle tanks;
(B) 20,000 armoured combat vehicles;
(C) 13,700 pieces of artillery;
(D) 5,150 combat aircraft; and
(E) 1,500 attack helicopters.
Article VII

1. In order that the limitations set forth in Articles IV, V and VI are not exceeded, no State Party shall exceed, from 40 months after entry into force of this Treaty, the maximum levels which it has previously agreed upon within its group of States Parties, in accordance with paragraph 7 of this Article, for its holdings of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty and of which it has provided notification pursuant to the provisions of this Article.

2. Each State Party shall provide at the signature of this Treaty notification to all other States Parties of the maximum levels for its holdings of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty. The notification of the maximum levels for holdings of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty provided by each State Party at the signature of this Treaty shall remain valid until the date specified in a subsequent notification pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Article.

3. In accordance with the limitations set forth in Articles IV, V and VI, each State Party shall have the right to change the maximum levels for its holdings of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty. Any change in the maximum levels for holdings of a State Party shall be notified by that State Party to all other States Parties at least 90 days in advance of the date, specified in the notification, on which such a change takes effect. In order not to exceed any of the limitations set forth in Articles IV and V, any increase in the maximum levels for holdings of a State Party that would otherwise cause those limitations to be exceeded shall be preceded or accompanied by a corresponding reduction in the previously notified maximum levels for holdings of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty of one or more States Parties belonging to the same group of States Parties. The notification of a change in the maximum levels for holdings shall remain valid from the date specified in the notification until the date specified in a subsequent notification of change pursuant to this paragraph.

4. Each notification required pursuant to paragraph 2 or 3 of this Article for armoured combat vehicles shall also include maximum levels for the holdings of armoured infantry fighting vehicles and heavy armament combat vehicles of the State Party providing the notification.

5. Ninety days before expiration of the 40-month period of reductions set forth in Article VIII and subsequently at the time of any notification of a change pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Article, each State Party shall provide notification of the maximum levels for its holdings of battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles and artillery with respect to each of the areas described in Article IV, paragraphs 2 to 4 and Article V, paragraph 1, subparagraph (A).

6. A decrease in the numbers of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty held by a State Party and subject to notification pursuant to the Protocol on Information Exchange shall by itself confer no right on any other State Party to increase the maximum levels for its holdings subject to notification pursuant to this Article.

7. It shall be the responsibility solely of each individual State Party to ensure that the maximum levels for its holdings notified pursuant to the provisions of this Article are not exceeded. States Parties belonging to the same group of States Parties shall consult in order to ensure that the maximum levels for holdings notified pursuant to the provisions of this Article, taken together as appropriate, do not exceed the limitations set forth in Articles IV, V and VI.
Article VIII

1. The numerical limitations set forth in Articles IV, V and VI shall be achieved only by means of reduction in accordance with the Protocol on Reduction, the Protocol on Helicopter Recategorization, the Protocol on Aircraft Reclassification, the Footnote to Section I, paragraph 2, subparagraph (A) of the Protocol on Existing Types and the Protocol on Inspection.

2. The categories of conventional armaments and equipment subject to reductions are battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft and attack helicopters. The specific types are listed in the Protocol on Existing Types.

(A) Battle tanks and armoured combat vehicles shall be reduced by destruction, conversion for non-military purposes, placement on static display, use as ground targets, or, in the case of armoured personnel carriers, modification in accordance with the Footnote to Section I, paragraph 2, subparagraph (A) of the Protocol on Existing Types.

(B) Artillery shall be reduced by destruction or placement on static display, or, in the case of self-propelled artillery, by use as ground targets.

(C) Combat aircraft shall be reduced by destruction, placement on static display, use for ground instructional purposes, or, in the case of specific models or versions of combat-capable trainer aircraft, reclassification into unarmed trainer aircraft.

(D) Specialized attack helicopters shall be reduced by destruction, placement on static display, or use for ground instructional purposes.

(E) Multi-purpose attack helicopters shall be reduced by destruction, placement on static display, use for ground instructional purposes, or recategorization.

3. Conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty shall be deemed to be reduced upon execution of the procedures set forth in the Protocols listed in paragraph 1 of this Article and upon notification as required by these Protocols. Armaments and equipment so reduced shall no longer be counted against the numerical limitations set forth in Articles IV, V and VI.

4. Reductions shall be effected in three phases and completed no later than 40 months after entry into force of this Treaty, so that:

(A) by the end of the first reduction phase, that is, no later than 16 months after entry into force of this Treaty, each State Party shall have ensured that at least 25 percent of its total reduction liability in each of the categories of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty has been reduced;

(B) by the end of the second reduction phase, that is, no later than 28 months after entry into force of this Treaty, each State Party shall have ensured that at least 60 percent of its total reduction liability in each of the categories of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty has been reduced;

(C) by the end of the third reduction phase, that is, no later than 40 months after entry into force of this Treaty, each State Party shall have reduced its total reduction liability in each of the categories of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty. States Parties carrying out conversion for non-military purposes shall have ensured that the conversion of all battle tanks in accordance with Section VIII of the Protocol on Reduction shall have been completed by the end of the third reduction phase; and

(D) armoured combat vehicles deemed reduced by reason of having been partially destroyed in accordance with Section VIII, paragraph 6 of the Protocol on Reduction shall have been fully converted for non-military purposes, or destroyed in accordance with Section IV of the Protocol on Reduction, no later than 64 months after entry into force of this Treaty.

5. Conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty to be reduced shall have been declared present within the area of application in the exchange of information at signature of this Treaty.

6. No later than 30 days after entry into force of this Treaty, each State Party shall provide notification to all other States Parties of its reduction liability.

7. Except as provided for in paragraph 8 of this Article, a State Party's reduction liability in each category shall be no less than the difference between its holdings notified, in accordance with the Protocol on Information Exchange, at signature or effective upon entry into force of this Treaty, whichever is the greater, and the maximum levels for holdings it notified pursuant to Article VII.

8. Any subsequent revision of a State Party's holdings notified pursuant to the Protocol on Information Exchange or of its maximum levels for holdings notified pursuant to Article VII shall be reflected by a notified adjustment to its reduction liability. Any notification of a decrease in a State Party's reduction liability shall be preceded or accompanied by either a notification of a corresponding increase in holdings not exceeding the maximum levels for holdings notified pursuant to Article VII by one or more States Parties belonging to the same group of States Parties, or a notification of a corresponding increase in the reduction liability of one or more such States Parties.

9. Upon entry into force of this Treaty, each State Party shall notify all other States Parties, in accordance with the Protocol on Information Exchange, of the locations of its reduction sites, including those where the final conversion of battle tanks and armoured combat vehicles for non-military purposes will be carried out.

10. Each State Party shall have the right to designate as many reduction sites as it wishes, to revise without restriction its designation of such sites and to carry out reduction and final conversion simultaneously at a maximum of 20 sites. States Parties shall have the right to share or co-locate reduction sites by mutual agreement.

11. Notwithstanding paragraph 10 of this Article, during the baseline validation period, that is, the interval between entry into force of this Treaty and 120 days after entry into force of this Treaty, reduction shall be carried out simultaneously at no more than two reduction sites for each State Party.

12. Reduction of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty shall be carried out at reduction sites, unless otherwise specified in the Protocols listed in paragraph 1 of this Article, within the area of application.

13. The reduction process, including the results of the conversion of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty for non-military purposes both during the reduction period and in the 24 months following the reduction period, shall be subject to inspection, without right of refusal, in accordance with the Protocol on Inspection.
Article IX

1. Other than removal from service in accordance with the provisions of Article VIII, battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft and attack helicopters within the area of application shall be removed from service only by decommissioning, provided that:

(A) such conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty are decommissioned and awaiting disposal at no more than eight sites which shall be notified as declared sites in accordance with the Protocol on Information Exchange and shall be identified in such notifications as holding areas for decommissioned conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty. If sites containing conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty decommissioned from service also contain any other conventional armaments and equipment subject to the Treaty, the decommissioned conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty shall be separately distinguishable; and

(B) the numbers of such decommissioned conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty do not exceed, in the case of any individual State Party, one percent of its notified holdings of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty, or a total of 250, whichever is greater, of which no more than 200 shall be battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles and pieces of artillery, and no more than 50 shall be attack helicopters and combat aircraft.

2. Notification of decommissioning shall include the number and type of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty decommissioned and the location of decommissioning and shall be provided to all other States Parties in accordance with Section IX, paragraph 1, subparagraph (B) of the Protocol on Information Exchange.
Article X

1. Designated permanent storage sites shall be notified in accordance with the Protocol on Information Exchange to all other States Parties by the State Party to which the conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty contained at designated permanent storage sites belong. The notification shall include the designation and location, including geographic coordinates, of designated permanent storage sites and the numbers by type of each category of its conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty at each such storage site.

2. Designated permanent storage sites shall contain only facilities appropriate for the storage and maintenance of armaments and equipment (e.g., warehouses, garages, workshops and associated stores as well as other support accommodation). Designated permanent storage sites shall not contain firing ranges or training areas associated with conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty. Designated permanent storage sites shall contain only armaments and equipment belonging to the conventional armed forces of a State Party.

3. Each designated permanent storage site shall have a clearly defined physical boundary that shall consist of a continuous perimeter fence at least 1.5 meters in height. The perimeter fence shall have no more than three gates providing the sole means of entrance and exit for armaments and equipment.

4. Conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty located within designated permanent storage sites shall be counted as conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty not in active units, including when they are temporarily removed in accordance with paragraphs 7, 8, 9 and 10 of this Article. Conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty in storage other than in designated permanent storage sites shall be counted as conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty in active units.

5. Active units or formations shall not be located within designated permanent storage sites, except as provided for in paragraph 6 of this Article.

6. Only personnel associated with the security or operation of designated permanent storage sites, or the maintenance of the armaments and equipment stored therein, shall be located within the designated permanent storage sites.

7. For the purpose of maintenance, repair or modification of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty located within designated permanent storage sites, each State Party shall have the right, without prior notification, to remove from and retain outside designated permanent storage sites simultaneously up to 10 percent, rounded up to the nearest even whole number, of the notified holdings of each category of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty in each designated permanent storage site, or 10 items of the conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty in each category in each designated permanent storage site, whichever is less.

8. Except as provided for in paragraph 7 of this Article, no State Party shall remove conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty from designated permanent storage sites unless notification has been provided to all other States Parties at least 42 days in advance of such removal. Notification shall be given by the State Party to which the conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty belong. Such notification shall specify:

(A the location of the designated permanent storage site from which conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty are to be removed and the numbers by type of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty of each category to be removed;

(B) the dates of removal and return of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty; and

(C) the intended location and use of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty while outside the designated permanent storage site.

9. Except as provided for in paragraph 7 of this Article, the aggregate numbers of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty removed from and retained outside designated permanent storage sites by States Parties belonging to the same group of States Parties shall at no time exceed the following levels:

(A) 550 battle tanks;
(B) 1,000 armoured combat vehicles; and
(C) 300 pieces of artillery.

10. Conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty removed from designated permanent storage sites pursuant to paragraphs 8 and 9 of this Article shall be returned to designated permanent storage sites no later than 42 days after their removal, except for those items of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty removed for industrial rebuild. Such items shall be returned to designated permanent storage sites immediately on completion of the rebuild.

11. Each State Party shall have the right to replace conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty located in designated permanent storage sites. Each State Party shall notify all other States Parties, at the beginning of replacement, of the number, location, type and disposition of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty being replaced.
Article XI

1. Each State Party shall limit its armoured vehicle launched bridges so that, 40 months after entry into force of this Treaty and thereafter, for the group of States Parties to which it belongs the aggregate number of armoured vehicle launched bridges in active units within the area of application does not exceed 740.

2. All armoured vehicle launched bridges within the area of application in excess of the aggregate number specified in paragraph 1 of this Article for each group of States Parties shall be placed in designated permanent storage sites, as defined in Article II. When armoured vehicle launched bridges are placed in a designated permanent storage site, either on their own or together with conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty, Article X, paragraphs 1 to 6 shall apply to armoured vehicle launched bridges as well as to conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty. Armoured vehicle launched bridges placed in designated permanent storage sites shall not be considered as being in active units.

3. Except as provided for in paragraph 6 of this Article, armoured vehicle launched bridges may be removed, subject to the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Article, from designated permanent storage sites only after notification has been provided to all other States Parties at least 42 days prior to such removal. This notification shall specify:

(A) the locations of the designated permanent storage sites from which armoured vehicle launched bridges are to be removed and the numbers of armoured vehicle launched bridges to be removed from each such site;

(B) the dates of removal of armoured vehicle launched bridges from and return to designated permanent storage sites; and

(C) the intended use of armoured vehicle launched bridges during the period of their removal from designated permanent storage sites.

4. Except as provided for in paragraph 6 of this Article, armoured vehicle launched bridges removed from designated permanent storage sites shall be returned to them no later than 42 days after the actual date of removal.

5. The aggregate number of armoured vehicle launched bridges removed from and retained outside of designated permanent storage sites by each group of States Parties shall not exceed 50 at any one time.

6. States Parties shall have the right, for the purpose of maintenance or modification, to remove and have outside of designated permanent storage sites simultaneously up to 10 percent, rounded up to the nearest even whole number, of their notified holdings of armoured vehicle launched bridges in each designated permanent storage site, or 10 armoured vehicle launched bridges from each designated permanent storage site, whichever is less.

7. In the event of natural disasters involving flooding or damage to permanent bridges, States Parties shall have the right to withdraw armoured vehicle launched bridges from designated permanent storage sites. Notification to all other States Parties of such withdrawals shall be given at the time of withdrawal.
Article XII

1. Armoured infantry fighting vehicles held by organizations of a State Party designed and structured to perform in peacetime internal security functions, which are not structured and organized for ground combat against an external enemy, are not limited by this Treaty. The foregoing notwithstanding, in order to enhance the implementation of this Treaty and to provide assurance that the number of such armaments held by such organizations shall not be used to circumvent the provisions of this Treaty, any such armaments in excess of 1,000 armoured infantry fighting vehicles assigned by a State Party to organizations designed and structured to perform in peacetime internal security functions shall constitute a portion of the permitted levels specified in Articles IV, V and VI. No more than 600 such armoured infantry fighting vehicles of a State Party, assigned to such organizations, may be located in that part of the area of application described in Article V, paragraph 1, subparagraph (A). Each State Party shall further ensure that such organizations refrain from the acquisition of combat capabilities in excess of those necessary for meeting internal security requirements.

2. A State Party that intends to reassign battle tanks, armoured infantry fighting vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft, attack helicopters and armoured vehicle launched bridges in service with its conventional armed forces to any organization of that State Party not a part of its conventional armed forces shall notify all other States Parties no later than the date such reassignment takes effect. Such notification shall specify the effective date of the reassignment, the date such equipment is physically transferred, as well as the numbers, by type, of the conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty being reassigned.
Article XIII

1. For the purpose of ensuring verification of compliance with the provisions of this Treaty, each State Party shall provide notifications and exchange information pertaining to its conventional armaments and equipment in accordance with the Protocol on Information Exchange.

2. Such notifications and exchange of information shall be provided in accordance with Article XVII.

3. Each State Party shall be responsible for its own information; receipt of such information and of notifications shall not imply validation or acceptance of the information provided.
Article XIV

1. For the purpose of ensuring verification of compliance with the provisions of this Treaty, each State Party shall have the right to conduct, and the obligation to accept, within the area of application, inspections in accordance with the provisions of the Protocol on Inspection.

2. The purpose of such inspections shall be:

(A) to verify, on the basis of the information provided pursuant to the Protocol on Information Exchange, the compliance of States Parties with the numerical limitations set forth in Articles IV, V and VI;

(B) to monitor the process of reduction of battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft and attack helicopters carried out at reduction sites in accordance with Article VIII and the Protocol on Reduction; and

(C) to monitor the certification of recategorized multi-purpose attack helicopters and reclassified combat-capable trainer aircraft carried out in accordance with the Protocol on Helicopter Recategorization and the Protocol on Aircraft Reclassification, respectively.

3. No State Party shall exercise the rights set forth in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article in respect of States Parties which belong to the group of States Parties to which it belongs in order to elude the objectives of the verification regime.

4. In the case of an inspection conducted jointly by more than one State Party, one of them shall be responsible for the execution of the provisions of this Treaty.

5. The number of inspections pursuant to Sections VII and VIII of the Protocol on Inspection which each State Party shall have the right to conduct and the obligation to accept during each specified time period shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section II of that Protocol.

6. Upon completion of the 120-day residual level validation period, each State Party shall have the right to conduct, and each State Party with territory within the area of application shall have the obligation to accept, an agreed number of aerial inspections within the area of application. Such agreed numbers and other applicable provisions shall be developed during negotiations referred to in Article XVIII.
Article XV

1. For the purpose of ensuring verification of compliance with the provisions of this Treaty, a State Party shall have the right to use, in addition to the procedures referred to in Article XIV, national or multinational technical means of verification at its disposal in a manner consistent with generally recognized principles of international law.

2. A State Party shall not interfere with national or multinational technical means of verification of another State Party operating in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article.

3. A State Party shall not use concealment measures that impede verification of compliance with the provisions of this Treaty by national or multinational technical means of verification of another State Party operating in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article. This obligation does not apply to cover or concealment practices associated with normal personnel training, maintenance or operations involving conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty.
Article XVI
1. To promote the objectives and implementation of the provisions of this Treaty, the States Parties hereby establish a Joint Consultative Group.

2. Within the framework of the Joint Consultative Group, the States Parties shall:

(A) address questions relating to compliance with or possible circumvention of the provisions of this Treaty;

(B) seek to resolve ambiguities and differences of interpretation that may become apparent in the way this Treaty is implemented;

(C) consider and, if possible, agree on measures to enhance the viability and effectiveness of this Treaty;

(D) update the lists contained in the Protocol on Existing Types, as required by Article II, paragraph 2;

(E) resolve technical questions in order to seek common practices among the States Parties in the way this Treaty is implemented;

(F) work out or revise, as necessary, rules of procedure, working methods, the scale of distribution of expenses of the Joint Consultative Group and of conferences convened under this Treaty and the distribution of costs of inspections between or among States Parties; 

(G) consider and work out appropriate measures to ensure that information obtained through exchanges of information among the States Parties or as a result of inspections pursuant to this Treaty is used solely for the purposes of this Treaty, taking into account the particular requirements of each State Party in respect of safeguarding information which that State Party specifies as being sensitive;

(H) consider, upon the request of any State Party, any matter that a State Party wishes to propose for examination by any conference to be convened in accordance with Article XXI; such consideration shall not prejudice the right of any State Party to resort to the procedures set forth in Article XXI; and

(I) consider matters of dispute arising out of the implementation of this Treaty.

3. Each State Party shall have the right to raise before the Joint Consultative Group, and have placed on its agenda, any issue relating to this Treaty.

4. The Joint Consultative Group shall take decisions or make recommendations by consensus. Consensus shall be understood to mean the absence of any objection by any representative of a State Party to the taking of a decision or the making of a recommendation.

5. The Joint Consultative Group may propose amendments to this Treaty for consideration and confirmation in accordance with Article XX. The Joint Consultative Group may also agree on improvements to the viability and effectiveness of this Treaty, consistent with its provisions. Unless such improvements relate only to minor matters of an administrative or technical nature, they shall be subject to consideration and confirmation in accordance with Article XX before they can take effect.

6. Nothing in this Article shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict any State Party from requesting information from or undertaking consultations with other States Parties on matters relating to this Treaty and its implementation in channels or fora other than the Joint Consultative Group.

7. The Joint Consultative Group shall follow the procedures set forth in the Protocol on the Joint Consultative Group.
Article XVII

The States Parties shall transmit information and notifications required by this Treaty in written form. They shall use diplomatic channels or other official channels designated by them, including in particular a communications network to be established by a separate arrangement.

Article XVIII

1. The States Parties, after signature of this Treaty, shall continue the negotiations on conventional armed forces with the same Mandate and with the goal of building on this Treaty.

2. The objective for these negotiations shall be to conclude an agreement on additional measures aimed at further strengthening security and stability in Europe, and pursuant to the Mandate, including measures to limit the personnel strength of their conventional armed forces within the area of application.

3. The States Parties shall seek to conclude these negotiations no later than the follow-up meeting of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe to be held in Helsinki in 1992.
Article XIX

1. This Treaty shall be of unlimited duration. It may be supplemented by a further treaty.

2. Each State Party shall, in exercising its national sovereignty, have the right to withdraw from this Treaty if it decides that extraordinary events related to the subject matter of this Treaty have jeopardized its supreme interests. A State Party intending to withdraw shall give notice of its decision to do so to the Depositary and to all other States Parties. Such notice shall be given at least 150 days prior to the intended withdrawal from this Treaty. It shall include a statement of the extraordinary events the State Party regards as having jeopardized its supreme interests.

3. Each State Party shall, in particular, in exercising its national sovereignty, have the right to withdraw from this Treaty if another State Party increases its holdings in battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft or attack helicopters, as defined in Article II, which are outside the scope of the limitations of this Treaty, in such proportions as to pose an obvious threat to the balance of forces within the area of application.

Article XX

1. Any State Party may propose amendments to this Treaty. The text of a proposed amendment shall be submitted to the Depositary, which shall circulate it to all the States Parties.

2. If an amendment is approved by all the States Parties, it shall enter into force in accordance with the procedures set forth in Article XXII governing the entry into force of this Treaty.

Article XXI

1. Forty-six months after entry into force of this Treaty, and at five-year intervals thereafter, the Depositary shall convene a conference of the States Parties to conduct a review of the operation of this Treaty.

2. The Depositary shall convene an extraordinary conference of the States Parties, if requested to do so by any State Party which considers that exceptional circumstances relating to this Treaty have arisen, in particular, in the event that a State Party has announced its intention to leave its group of States Parties or to join the other group of States Parties, as defined in Article II, paragraph 1, subparagraph (A). In order to enable the other States Parties to prepare for this conference, the request shall include the reason why that State Party deems an extraordinary conference to be necessary. The conference shall consider the circumstances set forth in the request and their effect on the operation of this Treaty. The conference shall open no later than 15 days after receipt of the request and, unless it decides otherwise, shall last no longer than three weeks.

3. The Depositary shall convene a conference of the States Parties to consider an amendment proposed pursuant to Article XX, if requested to do so by three or more States Parties. Such a conference shall open no later than 21 days after receipt of the necessary requests.

4. In the event that a State Party gives notice of its decision to withdraw from this Treaty pursuant to Article XIX, the Depositary shall convene a conference of the States Parties which shall open no later than 21 days after receipt of the notice of withdrawal in order to consider questions relating to the withdrawal from this Treaty.

Article XXII

1. his Treaty shall be subject to ratification by each State Party in accordance with its constitutional procedures. Instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, hereby designated the Depositary.

2. This Treaty shall enter into force 10 days after instruments of ratification have been deposited by all States Parties listed in the Preamble.

3. The Depositary shall promptly inform all States Parties of:

(A) the deposit of each instrument of ratification;
(B) the entry into force of this Treaty;
(C) any withdrawal in accordance with Article XIX and its effective date;
(D) the text of any amendment proposed in accordance with Article XX;
(E) the entry into force of any amendment to this Treaty;
(F) any request to convene a conference in accordance with Article XXI;
(G) the convening of a conference pursuant to Article XXI; and
(H) any other matter of which the Depositary is required by this Treaty to inform the States Parties.

4. This Treaty shall be registered by the Depositary pursuant to Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations.
Article XXIII

The original of this Treaty, of which the English, French, German, Italian, Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited in the archives of the Depositary. Duly certified copies of this Treaty shall be transmitted by the Depositary to all the States Parties.

Protocol on Existing Types of Conventional Armaments and Equipment

The States Parties hereby agree upon: (a) lists, valid as of the date of Treaty signature, of existing types of conventional armaments and equipment subject to the measures of limitation, reduction, information exchange and verification; (b) procedures for the provision of technical data and photographs relevant to such existing types of conventional armaments and equipment; and (c) procedures for updating the lists of such existing types of conventional armaments and equipment, in accordance with Article II of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe of November 19, 1990, hereinafter referred to as the Treaty.
Section I
EXISTING TYPES OF CONVENTIONAL ARMAMENTS AND EQUIPMENT LIMITED BY THE TREATY

1. Existing types of battle tanks are:


M-1	T-34
M-60	T-54
M-48	T-55
M-47	T-62
Leopard 1	T-64
Leopard 2	T-72
AMX-30	T-80
Challenger	TR-85
Chieftain	TR-580
Centurion	
M-41	
NM-116	
T-54	
T-55	
T-72	

All models and versions of an existing type of battle tank listed above shall be deemed to be battle tanks of that type.

2. Existing types of armoured combat vehicles are:

(A) Armoured Personnel Carriers
YPR-765	BTR-40
AMX-13 VTT	BTR-152
M113	BTR-50
M75	BTR-60
Spartan	OT-62(TOPAS)
Grizzly	OT-64(SKOT)
TPz-1 Fuchs	OT-90
VAB	FUG D-442
M59	BTR-70
Leonidas	BTR-80
VCC1	BTR-D
VCC2	TAB-77
Saxon	OT-810
AFV 432	PSZH D-944
Saracen	TABC-79
Humber	TAB-71
BDX	MLVM
BMR-600	MT-LB*
Chaimite V200	V150S
EBR-ETT	
M3A1	
YP 408	
BLR	
VIB	
LVTP-7	
6614/G	
BTR-152	
BTR-50	
BTR-60	
BTR-70	
MT-LB*	
[* This multi-purpose lightly armoured vehicle may be exceptionally modified within 40 months of entry into force of the Treaty into an armoured personnel carrier look-alike listed in Section II, paragraph 1 of this Protocol as MT-LB-AT by alteration of the interior of the vehicle through the removal of the left-hand combat infantry squad seating and the welding of the ammunition racking to the side and the floor at a minimum of six points so that the vehicle is not capable of transporting a combat infantry squad. Such modifications may be accomplished at locations other than reduction sites. MT-LB armoured personnel carriers that have not been modified shall be reported in accordance with the Protocol on Information Exchange as armoured personnel carriers.]

All models and versions of an existing type of armoured pesronnel carrier listed above shall be deemed to be armoured personnel carriers of that type, unless such models and versions are included in the armoured personnel carrier look-alike list in Section II, paragraph 1 of this Protocol.


(B) Armoured Infantry Fighting Vehicles:

YPR-765 (25mm)	BMP-1/BRM-1
Marder	BMP-2
AMX-10P	BMP-23
Warrior	MLI-84
M2/M3 Bradley	BMD-1
AFV 432 Rarden	BMD-2
NM-135	BMP-3
BMP-1/BRM-1	
BMP-2	
All models and versions of an existing type of an armoured infantry fighting vehicle listed above shall be deemed to be armoured infantry fighting vehicles of that type, unless such models and versions are included in the armoured infantry fighting vehicle look-alike list in Section II, paragraph 2 of this Protocol.

(C) Heavy Armament Combat Vehicles:

AMX-10RC	PT-76
ERC 90 Sagaye	SU-76
BMR-625-90	SU-100
Commando V150	ISU-152
Scorpion	
Saladin	
JPK-90	
M-24	
AMX-13	
EBR-75 Panhard	
PT-76	
All models and versions of an existing type of heavy armament combat vehicle listed above shall be deemed to be heavy armament combat vehicles of that type.

3. Existing types of artillery are:

(A) Guns, Howitzers and Artillery Pieces Combining the Characteristics of Guns and Howitzers:

105 mm:	105 Light Gun	100mm:	BS-3 Field Gun
	M18		Model 53 Field Gun
	105 Krupp Gun		Skoda How (Model
	105 R Metal Gun		1914/1934, 1930,
	105 Pack How		1934)
	M 56 Pack How		Skoda How
	M 101 Towed How		(Model 1939)
	M 102 Towed How		
	Abbot SP Gun	105mm:	Schneider Field Gun
	M108 SP How		(Model 1936)
	M52 SP How		
	105 HM-2 How	120mm:	2B16 How
	M-38 Gun (Skoda)		2S9 SP How
	105 AU 50 How	 	
	R58/M26 Towed How	122mm:	D30 How
			M-30 How
122mm:	122/46 Field Gun		D74 How
	D30 How		2S1 SP How
	M 30 How		A19 Gun (Model
	2 S1 SP How		31/37)
			Model 89 SP How
			
130mm:	M 46 Gun	130mm:	Gun 82
			M-46 Gun
			
140mm:	5.5"(139.7mm)	150mm:	Skoda How
	Towed How		(Model 1934)
			Ceh How
			(Model 1937)
			
150mm:	150 Skoda Gun	152mm:	D1 How
			2S3 SP How
152mm:	D20 Gun-How		2A65 How
	2S3 SP How		ML20 How-Gun
			D20 Gun-How
155mm:	M114 Towed How		Gun 81
	M114/39 (M-139)		2A36 Gun
	Towed How		Dana SP Gun-How
	FH-70 Towed How		M77
	M109 SP How		2S5 SP Gun
	M198 Towed How		2S19 SP How
	155 TRFI Gun		Gun-How 85
	155 AUF1 Gun		How Model 1938
	155 AMF3 Gun		How 81
	155 BF50 Gun		
	M44 SP How	203mm:	B4 How
	M59 Towed Gun		2S7 SP Gun
	SP70 SP How		
			
175mm:	M107 SP Gun		
			
203mm:	M115 Towed How		
	M110 SP How		
	M55 SP How		
(B) Mortars:
107mm:	4.2"(ground	107mm:	Mortar M-1938
	mounted or on M 106		
	armoured vehicle)		
		120mm:	2B11 (2S12)
120mm:	Brandt (M60, M-120-60;		M 120 Model 38/43
	SLM-120-AM-50		Tundzha/Tundzha
	M120 RTF 1		Sani SP mortar
	M120 M51		(mounted on
	Soltam/Tampella		MT-LB)
	(ground mounted		Mortar Model 1982
	or on M113 armoured		B-24
	vehicle)		
	Ecia Mod L	160mm:	M160
	(ground mounted		
	M-L or mounted	240mm:	M240
	on either the		2S4 SP Mortar
	BMR-600 or		
	M113 armoured		
	vehicle)		
	HY12 (Tosam)		
	2B11 (2S12)		
(C) Multiple Launch Rocket Systems:

110mm:	LARS	112mm:	BM-21 (BM-21-1,
			BM-21V)
122mm:	BM-21		RM-70
	RM-70		APR-21
			APR-40
140mm:	Teruel MLAS		
		130mm:	M-51
227mm:	MLRS		RM-130
			BM-13
			R.2
			
		140mm:	BM-14
			
		220mm:	BM-22/27
			
		240mm:	BM-24
			
		280mm:	Uragan 9P140
			
		300mm:	Smerch

All models and versions of an existing type of artillery listed above shall be deemed to be artillery of that type.

4. Existing types of combat aircraft are:

A-7	IAR-93
A-10	IL-28
Alpha Jet A	MiG-15
AM-X	MiG-17
Buccaneer	MiG-21
Canberra	MiG-23
Draken	MiG-25
F-4	MiG-27
F-5	MiG-29
F-15	MiG-31
F-16	SU-7
F-18	SU-15
F-84	SU-17
F-102	SU-20
F-104	SU-22
F-111	SU-24
G-91	SU-25
Harrier	SU-27
Hunter	TU-16
Jaguar	TU-22
Lightning	TU-22M
MiG-21	TU-128
MiG-23	Yak-23
MiG-29	
MB 339	
Mirage F1	
Mirage III	
Mirage IV	
Mirage V	
Mirage 2000	
SU-22	
Tornado	
All models or versions of an existing type of combat aircraft listed above shall be deemed to be combat aircraft of that type.

5. Existing types of attack helicopters are:

(A) Specialised Attack Helicopters:

A-129 Mangusta	Mi-24
AH-1 Cobra	
AH-64 Apache	
Mi-24	
Subject to the provisions in Section I, paragraph 3 of the Protocol on Helicopter Recategorisation, all models or versions of an existing type of specialised attack helicopter listed above shall be deemed to be specialised attack helicopters of that type.

(B) Multi-Purpose Attack Helicopters:

A-109 Hirundo	IAR-316
Aloutte III	Mi-8/Mi-17
BO-105/PAH-1	
Fennec AS 550 C-2	
Gazelle	
Lynx	
Mi-8	
OH-58 Kiowa/AB-206/CH-136	
Scout	
Wessex	
Subject to the provisions in Section I, paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Protocol on Helicopter Recategorisation, all models or versions of an existing type of multi-purpose attack helicopter listed above shall be deemed to be multipurpose attack helicopters of that type.
Section III
EXISTING TYPES OF CONVENTIONAL ARMAMENTS AND EQUIPMENT 
NOT LIMITED BY THE TREATY

1. Existing types of armoured personnel carrier look-alikes are:


YPR-765	MILAN	BTR-40	CP
	CP		
	PRCOC1	BTR-50	PU
	PRCOC2		PUM
	PRCOC4		P
	PRCOC5		PUR 82
	PRMR		PK (MRF)
			UR-67
AMX-13 VTT	MILAN		PK (B)
	PC		MTP-1
			
		BTR-152	CP
M113	MILAN		
	A1/A2 (ATGW)	BTR-60	PU
	E/W TOW		PU-12/PA PU-12
	ARTFC		PAU
	ARTOBS		BBS
	FACONT		ABS
	MORTFC		R-137 B
	A11		R-140 BM
	Mortar Carrier		R-145
	SIG		R-156
	HFTRSM		R-409 BM
	CP		P-238BT
	CPSVC		P-240BT
	A1CP		P-241BT
	A1ECP		E-351BR
	4.2" M106 A1 4.2"		R-975
	M106 81mm		MTP-2
	M-125 81mm		1V18, 1V19
	M125 A1 81mm		1V118
	M125 A2 81mm		B
	NM-125 81mm		
		BTR-70	KShM
TPz-1 FUCHS	HFTRSM		SPR-2
	AD CP		BREM
	CP		ZS-88
	ENGRCP		Kh
	ELOKA		
	NBC	BTR-80	1V119
	RASIT		RCHM-4
			
M59	CP	BTR-D	ZD
			RD
			
LEONIDAS	1		
		OT-62 (TOPAS)	CP
VAB	PC		WPT/DPT-62
			BREM
BMR-600	SIG		R-2M
	PC		R-3M
	81mm		R-3MT
			R-4MT
SPARTAN	STRIKER		
	SAMSON	OT-64 (SKOT)	CP
	CP		R-3Z
	JAVELIN		R-2M
	MILAN		R-3MT
			R-4
SAXON	AD		R-4MT
	CP		R-2AM
	MAINT		PROPAGANDA
			R-4M
AFV 432	CP/RA		R-6
	81mm		WPT/DR-64
	CYMB		BREM
	AFV 435		S-260 inz.
	AFV 436		S-260 art.
	AFV 439		
		OT-810	OT-810/R-112
HUMBER	SQUIRT		
		OT-90	VP 90
SARACEN	SQUIRT		
	CP	FUG D-442	VS
	ADR		MRP
			OT-65/R-112
YP 408	PWMR		OT-65 D
	PWCO		OT-65 CH
	PWAT		
	PWRDR	PSZH D-944	CP
	PWV		
		MT-LB	AT
BTR-50	PU		KShM-R-81
	PK (MRF)		R-80
	PK(B)		9S743
			PI
BTR-60	PU-12/PA PU-12		1W-13-16
	BBS		1W-21-25
	ABS		1W-12
	R-137B		MP-21-25
	R-140BM		AFMS
	R-145		R-381T
	R-156		R-330P
	R-409 BM		Beta 3M
	P-238 BT		SPR-1
	P-240 BT		WPT/DTP
	P-241 BT		BREM
	B		TRI
			MTP-LB
MT-LB	PI		BRM Sova/
	MP-21-25		BRM 30
	1W-13-16		
	AFMS	TAB-71	A
	R-381 T		TERA-71L
	R-330 P		AR
	Beta 3M		
	MTP-LB	TAB-77	A
			TERA-77-L
			RCH-84
			PCOMA
			
		TABC-79	AR
			A-POMA
			
		TAB	TCG-80
			
		MLVM	AR

2. Existing types of armoured infantry fighting vehicle look-alikes are:

WARRIOR	RA	BMP-1	KSh
	REP		9S743
	REC		PRP-3, -4
			MP-31
BMP-1	MTP		B
	MP-31		SVO
			DTB-80
			VPV
			IRM
			MTP
			BREM-4, -2, -D
		BMD-1	KSh
			
		BRM-1	KSh
3. Existing types of primary trainer aircraft which are designed and constructed for primary flying training and which may possess only limited armament capability necessary for basic training in weapon delivery techniques are:


Alpha Jet E	I-22
C-101 Aviojet	IAR-99
Fouga	L-29
Hawk	L-39
Jet Provost	TS-11
L-39	
MB-326	
PD-808	
T-2	
T-33/CT-133	
T-37	
T-38	
4. Existing types of combat support helicopters are:

A-109 Hirundo	IAR-316
AB-412	IAR-330
Alouette II	Mi-2
Alouette III	Mi-6
Blackhawk	Mi-8/Mi-17
Bell 47/AB 47/Sioux	
BO-105	
CH53	
Chinook	
Fennec AS 555 A	
Hughes 300	
Hughes 500/OH-6	
Mi-8	
OH-58 Kiowa/AB-206/CH-136	
Puma	
Sea King	
UH-1A/1B/AB-204	
UH-1D/1H/AB-205	
UH-1N/AB-212	
Wessex	
5. Existing types of unarmed transport helicopters which are not equipped for the employment of weapons are:

AB 47	Mi-2
AB-412	Mi-26
Alouette II	SA-365N
CH53	Dauphin
Chinook	W-3 Sokol
Cougar AS 532 U	
Dauphin AS 365 N1	
Hughes 300	
NH 500	
Puma	
Sea King/H-3F/HAR 3	
SH-3D	
UH-1D/1H/AB-205	
UH-1N/AB-212	
6. Existing types of armoured vehicle launched bridges are:

M47 AVLB	MTU
M48 AVLB	MT-20
M60 AVLB	MT-55A
Centurion AVLB	MTU-72
Chieftain AVLB	BLG-60
Brueckenlegepanzer Biber/	BLG-67M
Leopard 1 AVLB	BLG-67M2

Section III
TECHNICAL DATA AND PHOTOGRAPHS

1. Technical data, in accordance with the agreed categories in the Annex to this Protocol, together with photographs presenting the right or left side, top and front views for each of its existing types of conventional armaments and equipment listed in Sections I and II of this Protocol shall be provided by each State Party to all other States Parties at the signature of the Treaty. In addition, photographs of armoured personnel carrier look-alikes and armoured infantry fighting vehicle look-alikes shall include a view of such vehicles so as to show clearly their internal configuration illustrating the specific characteristic which distinguishes this particular vehicle as a look-alike. Photographs in addition to those required by this paragraph may be provided at the discretion of each State Party.

2. Each existing type of conventional armaments and equipment listed in Sections I and II of this Protocol shall have a model or version of that type designated as an exemplar. Photographs shall be provided for each such designated exemplar pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Section. Photographs shall not be required of models and versions of a type that have no significant externally observable differences from the exemplar of that type. The photographs of each exemplar of a type shall contain an annotation of the existing type designation and national nomenclature for all models and versions of the type that the photographs of the exemplar represent. The photographs of each exemplar of a type shall contain an annotation of the technical data for that type in accordance with the agreed categories in the Annex to this Protocol. In addition, the annotation shall indicate all models and versions of the type that the photographs of the exemplar represent. Such technical data shall be annotated on the side view photograph.
Section IV
UPDATES OF EXISTING TYPES LISTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE STATES PARTIES

1. This Protocol constitutes agreement by the States Parties only with respect to existing types of conventional armaments and equipment as well as with respect to the categories of technical data set forth in Sections I and II of the Annex to this Protocol.

2. Each State Party shall be responsible for the accuracy of technical data for only its own conventional armaments and equipment provided in accordance with Section III of this Protocol.

3. Each State Party shall notify all other States Parties, upon the entry into service with the armed forces of that State Party within the area of application, of: (a) any new type of conventional armaments and equipment which meets one of the definitions in Article II of the Treaty or which falls under a category listed in this Protocol, and (b) any new model or version of a type listed in this Protocol. At the same time, each State Party shall provide all other States Parties with the technical data and photographs required by Section III of this Protocol.

4. As soon as possible, and in any case no later than 60 days following a notification pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Section, the States Parties shall initiate update actions, in accordance with the provisions set forth in Article XVI of the Treaty and the Protocol on the Joint Consultative Group, for the lists of existing types of conventional armaments and equipment in Sections I and II of this Protocol. 

Annex to the Protocol on Existing Types of Conventional Armaments and Equipment

Section I
AGREED CATEGORIES OF TECHNICAL DATA

The following are agreed categories of technical data for each model and version of existing types of conventional armaments and equipment:

1. Battle Tanks

Existing Type
National Nomenclature
Main Gun Calibre
Unladen Weight
2. Armoured Combat Vehicles

Armoured Personnel Carriers
Existing Type
National Nomenclature
Type and Calibre of Armaments, if any

Armoured Infantry Fighting Vehicles
Existing Type
National Nomenclature
Type and Calibre of Armaments

Heavy Armament Combat Vehicles
Existing Type
National Nomenclature
Main Gun Calibre
Unladen Weight


3. Artillery

Guns, Howitzers and Artillery Pieces Combining the
Characteristics of Guns and Howitzers
Existing Type
National Nomenclature
Calibre

Mortars
Existing Type
National Nomenclature
Calibre

Multiple Launch Rocket Systems
Existing Type
National Nomenclature
Calibre


4. Combat Aircraft

Existing Type
National Nomenclature

5. Attack Helicopters

Existing Type
National Nomenclature

6. Armoured Personnel Carrier Look-Alikes

Existing Type
National Nomenclature
Type and Calibre of Armaments, if any

7. Armoured Infantry Fighting Vehicle Look-Alikes

Existing Type
National Nomenclature
Type and Calibre of Armaments, if any

8. Primary Trainer Aircraft

Existing Type
National Nomenclature
Type of Armaments, if any

9. Combat Support Helicopters

Existing Type
National Nomenclature

10. Unarmed Transport Helicopters

Existing Type
National Nomenclature

11. Armoured Vehicle Launched Bridges

Existing Type
National Nomenclature
Section II
SPECIFICATIONS FOR PHOTOGRAPHS

Photographs provided pursuant to Section III of this Protocol shall be in black and white. The use of flash and lighting equipment shall be allowed. The object being photographed shall contrast with the background of the photograph. All photographs shall be of high definition, with continuous tone and in sharp focus. Photographs measuring 13 centimetres by 18 centimetres, not including a border, shall be provided. For aspects other than overhead, all photographs shall be taken from the same level as the equipment being photographed, with the camera placed along or perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the object being photographed; for the top view, photographs shall show the top and may show the rear aspects of the equipment. The object being photographed shall fill at least 80 per cent of the photograph in either horizontal or vertical aspect. A reference gauge shall be included in each photograph together with the object. The gauge shall have alternating half-metre sections in black and white. It shall be long enough to provide accurate scaling and shall be placed on or against the object or in close proximity to it. Each photograph shall be labelled to provide the information required by Section III, paragraph 2 of this Protocol as well as the date when the photograph was taken.

Protocol on Procedures Governing the Reclassification of Specific Models or Versions of Combat-Capable Trainer Aircraft into Unarmed Trainer Aircraft 

The States Parties hereby agree upon procedures and provisions governing total disarming and certification of the unarmed status of specific models or versions of combat-capable trainer aircraft in accordance with Article VIII of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe of November 19, 1990, hereinafter referred to as the Treaty.
Section I
GENERAL PROVISIONS

1. Each State Party shall have the right to remove from the numerical limitations on combat aircraft in Articles IV and VI of the Treaty only those specific models or versions of combat-capable trainer aircraft listed in Section II, paragraph 1 of this Protocol in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Protocol.

(A) Each State Party shall have the right to remove from the numerical limitations on combat aircraft in Articles IV and VI of the Treaty individual aircraft of the specific models or versions listed in Section II, paragraph 1 of this Protocol that have any of the components set forth in Section III, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Protocol only by total disarming and certification.

(B) Each State Party shall have the right to remove from the numerical limitations on combat aircraft in Articles IV and VI of the Treaty individual aircraft of the specific models or versions listed in Section II, paragraph 1 of this Protocol that do not have any of the components set forth in Section III, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Protocol by certification alone.

2. Models or versions of combat-capable trainer aircraft listed in Section II of this Protocol may be disarmed and certified, or certified alone, within 40 months after entry into force of the Treaty. Such aircraft shall count against the numerical limitations on combat aircraft in Articles IV and VI of the Treaty until such aircraft have been certified as unarmed in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section IV of this Protocol. Each State Party shall have the right to remove from the numerical limitations on combat aircraft in Articles IV and VI of the Treaty no more than 550 such aircraft, of which no more than 130 shall be of the Mig-25U model or version.

3. No later than entry into force of the Treaty, each State Party shall notify all other States Parties of:

(A) the total number of each specific model or version of combat-capable trainer aircraft that the State Party intends to disarm and certify in accordance with Section I, paragraph 1, subparagraph (A), Section III and Section IV of this Protocol; and 

(B) the total number of each specific model or version of combat-capable trainer aircraft that the State Party intends to certify alone, in accordance with Section I, paragraph 1, subparagraph (B) and Section IV of this Protocol.

4. Each State Party shall use whatever technological means it deems necessary to implement the total disarming procedures set forth in Section III of this Protocol.
Section II
MODELS OR VERSIONS OF COMBAT-CAPABLE TRAINER AIRCRAFT ELIGIBLE 
FOR TOTAL DISARMING AND CERTIFICATION

1. Each State Party shall have the right to remove from the numerical limitations on combat aircraft in Articles IV and VI of the Treaty in accordance with the provisions of this Protocol only the following specific models or versions of combat-capable trainer aircraft:
SU-15U
SU-17U
MiG-15U
MiG-21U
Mig-23U
MiG-25U
UIL-28

2. The foregoing list of specific models or versions of combat-capable trainer aircraft is final and not subject to revision.
Section III
PROCEDURES FOR TOTAL DISARMING

1. Models or versions of combat-capable trainer aircraft being totally disarmed shall be rendered incapable of further employment of any type of weapon system as well as further operation of electronic warfare and reconnaissance systems by the removal of the following components:

(A) provisions specifically for the attachment of weapon systems, such as special hardpoints, launching devices, or weapon mounting areas;

(B) units and panels of weapon control systems including weapon selection, arming and firing or launching systems;

(C) units of aiming equipment and weapon guidance systems not integral to navigation and flight control systems; and

(D) units and panels of electronic warfare and reconnaissance systems including associated antennae.

2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1 of this Section, any special hardpoints which are integral to the aircraft, as well as any special elements of general purpose hardpoints which are designed for use only with the components described in paragraph 1 of this Section, shall be rendered incapable of further employment with such systems. Electrical circuits of the weapon, electronic warfare, and reconnaissance systems described in paragraph 1 of this Section shall be rendered incapable of further employment by removal of the wiring or, if that is not technically practicable, by cutting out sections of the wiring in accessible areas.

Each State Party shall provide to all other States Parties the following information, no less than 42 days in advance of the total disarming of the first aircraft of each model or version of combat-capable trainer aircraft listed in Section II of this Protocol:

(A) a basic block diagram portraying all major components of weapon systems including aiming equipment and weapon guidance systems, provisions designed for the attachment of weapons as well as components of electronic warfare and reconnaissance systems, the basic function of the components described in paragraph 1 of this Section, and the functional connections of such components to each other;

(B) a general description of the disarming process including a list of components to be removed; and

(C) a photograph of each component to be removed illustrating its position in the aircraft prior to its removal, and a photograph of the same position after the corresponding component has been removed.

Section IV
PROCEDURES FOR CERTIFICATION

1. Each State Party that intends to disarm and certify, or certify alone, models or versions of combat-capable trainer aircraft shall comply with the following certification procedures in order to ensure that such aircraft do not possess any of the components listed in Section III, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Protocol.

2. Each State Party shall notify all other States Parties in accordance with Section IX, paragraph 3 of the Protocol on Inspection of each certification. In the event of the first certification of an aircraft that does not require total disarming, the State Party that intends to conduct the certification shall provide to all other States Parties the information required in Section III, paragraph 3, subparagraphs (A), (B) and (C) of this Protocol for an armed model or version of the same aircraft type.

3. Each State Party shall have the right to inspect the certification of combat-capable trainer aircraft in accordance with Section IX of the Protocol on Inspection.

4. The process of total disarming and certification, or certification alone, shall be deemed completed when the certification procedures set forth in this Section have been completed regardless of whether any State Party exercises the certification inspection rights described in paragraph 3 of this Section and Section IX of the Protocol on Inspection, provided that within 30 days of receipt of the notification of completion of the certification and reclassification provided pursuant to paragraph 5 of this Section no State Party has notified all other States Parties that it considers that there is an ambiguity relating to the certification and reclassification process. In the event of such an ambiguity being raised, such reclassification shall not be deemed complete until the matter relating to the ambiguity is resolved.

5. The State Party conducting the certification shall notify all other States Parties in accordance with Section IX of the Protocol on Inspection of completion of the certification.

6. Certification shall be conducted in the area of application. States Parties belonging to the same group of States Parties shall have the right to share locations for certification.

Section V
PROCEDURES FOR INFORMATION EXCHANGE AND VERIFICATION

All models or versions of combat-capable trainer aircraft certified as unarmed shall be subject to information exchange, in accordance with the provisions of the Protocol on Information Exchange, and verification, including inspection, in accordance with the Protocol on Inspection.

Protocol on Procedures Governing the Reduction of 
Conventional Armaments and Equipment Limited by the 
Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe
The States Parties hereby agree upon procedures governing the reduction of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty as set forth in Article VIII of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe of November 1, 1990, hereinafter referred to as the Treaty. 
Section I
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR REDUCTION

1. Conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty shall be reduced in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Protocol and the other protocols listed in Article VIII, paragraph 1 of the Treaty. Any one of such procedures shall be deemed sufficient, when conducted in accordance with the provisions of Article VIII of the Treaty or this Protocol, to carry out reduction. 

2. Each State Party shall have the right to use any technological means it deems appropriate to implement the procedures for reducing conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty.

3. Each State Party shall have the right to remove, retain and use those components and parts of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty which are not themselves subject to reduction in accordance with the provisions of Section II of this Protocol, and to dispose of debris.

4. Unless otherwise provided for in this Protocol, conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty shall be reduced so as to preclude their further use or restoration for military purposes.

5. After entry into force of the Treaty, additional procedures for reduction may be proposed by any State Party. Such proposals shall be communicated to all other States Parties and shall provide the details of such procedures in the same format as the procedures set forth in this Protocol. Any such procedures shall be deemed sufficient to carry out the reduction of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty upon a decision to that effect by the Joint Consultative Group.
Section II
STANDARDS FOR PRESENTATION AT REDUCTION SITES

1. Each item of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty which is to be reduced shall be presented at a reduction site. Each such item shall consist, at a minimum, of the following parts and elements:

(A) for battle tanks: the hull, turret and integral main armament. For the purposes of this Protocol, an integral main armament of a battle tank shall be deemed to include the gun tube, breech system, trunnions and trunnion mounts;

(B) for armoured combat vehicles: the hull, turret and integral main armament, if any. For the purposes of this Protocol, an integral main armament of an armoured combat vehicle shall be deemed to include the gun tube, breech system, trunnions and trunnion mounts. For the purposes of this Protocol, an integral main armament shall be deemed not to include machine guns of less than 20 millimetre calibre, all of which may be salvaged;

(C) for artillery: the tube, breech system, cradle including trunnions and trunnion mounts, trails, if any; or launcher tubes or launcher rails and their bases; or mortar tubes and their base plates. In the case of self-propelled pieces of artillery, the vehicle hull and turret, if any, shall also be presented;

(D) for combat aircraft: the fuselage; and

(E) for attack helicopters: the fuselage, including the transmission mounting area.

2. In each case, the item presented at the reduction site in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Section shall consist of a complete assembly.

3. Parts and elements of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty not specified in paragraph 1 of this Section, as well as parts and elements which are not affected by reduction under the procedures of this Protocol, including the turrets of armoured personnel carriers equipped only with machine guns, may be disposed of as the State Party undertaking the reduction decides. 
Section III
PROCEDURES FOR REDUCTION OF BATTLE TANKS BY DESTRUCTION

1. Each State Party shall have the right to choose any one of the following sets of procedures each time it carries out the destruction of battle tanks at reduction sites.

2. Procedure for destruction by severing:

(A) removal of special equipment from the chassis, including detachable equipment, that ensures the operation of on-board armament systems;

(B) removal of the turret, if any;

(C) for the gun breech system, either:

(D) severing of the gun tube into two parts at a distance of no more than 100 millimetres from the breech ring;

(E) severing of either of the gun trunnions and its trunnion mount in the turret;

(F) severing of two sections from the perimeter of the hull turret aperture, each constituting a portion of a sector with an angle of no less than 60 degrees and, at a minimum, 200 millimetres in radial axis, centred on the longitudinal axis of the vehicle; and

(G) severing of sections from both sides of the hull which include the final drive apertures, by vertical and horizontal cuts in the side plates and diagonal cuts in the deck or belly plates and front or rear plates, so that, the final drive apertures are contained in the severed portions.

3. Procedure for destruction by explosive demolition:

(A) hull, hatches and cornerplates shall be open to maximise venting;

(B) an explosive charge shall be placed inside the gun tube where the trunnions connect to the gun mount or cradle;

(C) an explosive charge shall be placed on the outside of the hull between the second and third road wheels, or between the third and fourth road wheels in a six road wheel configuration, avoiding natural weaknesses such as welds or escape hatches. The charge must be located within the radius of the turret casting. A second charge shall be placed on the inside of the hull on the same side of the tank, offset and opposite to the external charge;

(D) an explosive charge shall be placed on the inside of the turret casting in the area of the main armament mounting; and 

(E) all charges shall be fired simultaneously so that the main hull and turret are cracked and distorted; the breech block is stripped from the gun tube, fused or deformed; the gun tube is split or longitudinally cut; the gun mount or cradle is ruptured so as to be unable to mount a gun tube; and damage is caused to the running gear so that at least one of the road wheel stations is destroyed.

4. Procedure for destruction by deformation:

(A) removal of special equipment from the chassis, including detachable equipment, that ensures the operation of on-board armament systems;

(B) removal of the turret, if any;

(C) for the gun breech system, either:
(1) welding the breech block to the breech ring in at least two places; or
(2) cutting of at least one side of the breech ring along the long axis of the cavity that receives the breech block;

(D) severing of the gun tube into two parts at a distance of no more than 100 millimetres from the breech ring;

(E) severing of either of the gun trunnions; and

(F) the hull and turret shall be deformed so that their widths are each reduced by at least 20 per cent.

5. Procedure for destruction by smashing:

(A) a heavy steel wrecking ball, or the equivalent, shall be dropped repeatedly onto the hull and turret until the hull is cracked in at least three separate places and the turret in at least one place;

(B) the hits of the ball on the turret shall render either of the trunnions and its trunnion mount inoperative, and deform visibly the breech ring; and

(C) the gun tube shall be visibly cracked or bent.

Section IV
PROCEDURES FOR THE REDUCTION OF ARMOURED COMBAT VEHICLES BY DESTRUCTION

1. Each State Party shall have the right to choose any of the following sets of procedures each time it carries out the destruction of armoured combat vehicles at reduction sites.

2. Procedure for destruction by severing:

(A) for all armoured combat vehicles, removal of special equipment from the chassis, including detachable equipment, that ensures the operation of on-board armament systems;

(B) for tracked armoured combat vehicles, severing of sections from both sides of the hull which include the final drive apertures, by vertical and horizontal cuts in the side plates and diagonal cuts in the deck or belly plates and front or rear plates, so that the final drive apertures are contained in the severed portions;

(C) for wheeled armoured combat vehicles, severing of sections from both sides of the hull which include the front wheel final gearbox mounting areas by vertical, horizontal and irregular cuts in the side, front, deck and belly plates so that the front wheel final gearbox mounting areas are included in the severed portions at a distance of no less than 100 millimetres from the cuts; and

(D) in addition, for armoured infantry fighting vehicles and heavy armament combat vehicles:
(1) removal of the turret;
(2) severing of either of the gun trunnions and its trunnion mount in the turret;
(3) for the gun breech system:

(a) welding the breech block to the breech ring in at least two places;
(b) cutting of at least one side of the breech ring along the long axis of the cavity that receives the breech block; or
(c) severing of the breech casing into two approximately equal parts;

(4) severing of the gun tube into two parts at a distance of no more than 100 millimetres from the breech ring; and
(5) severing of two sections from the perimeter of the hull turret aperture, each constituting a portion of a sector with an angle of no less than 60 degrees and, at a minimum, 200 milimetres in radial axis, centred on the longitudinal axis of the vehicle.
3. Procedure for destruction by explosive demolition:

(A) an explosive charge shall be placed on the interior floor at the mid-point of the vehicle;

(B) a second explosive charge shall be placed as follows:
(1) for heavy armament combat vehicles, inside the gun where the trunnions connect to the gun mount or cradle;
(2) for armoured infantry fighting vehicles, on the exterior of the receiver/breech area and lower barrel group;
(C) all hatches shall be secured; and

(D) the charges shall be detonated simultaneously so as to split the sides and top of the hull. For heavy armament combat vehicles and armoured infantry fighting vehicles, damage to the gun system shall be equivalent to that specified in paragraph 2, sugparagraph (D) of this Section.

4. Procedure for destruction by smashing:

(A) a heavy steel wrecking ball, or the equivalent, shall be dropped repeatedly onto the hull and the turret, if any, until the hull is cracked in at least three separate places and the turret, if any, in one place;

(B) in addition, for heavy armament combat vehicles:
(1) the hits of the ball on the turret shall render either of the gun trunnions and its trunnion mount inoperative, and shall deform visibly the breech ring; and 
(2) the gun tube shall be visibly cracked or bent.

Section V
PROCEDURES FOR THE REDUCTION OF ARTILLERY BY DESTRUCTION

1. Each State Party shall have the right to choose any one of the following sets of procedures each time it carries out the destruction of guns, howitzers, artillery pieces combining the characteristics of guns and howitzers, multiple launch rocket systems or mortars at reduction sites.

2. Procedure for destruction by severing of guns, howitzers, artillery pieces combining the characteristics of guns and howitzers, or mortars, that are not self-propelled:

(A) removal of special equipment, including detachable equipment, that ensures the operation of the gun, howitzer, artillery piece combining the characteristics of guns and howitzers or mortar;

(B) for the breech system, if any, of the gun, howitzer, artillery piece combining the characteristics of tuns and howitzers or mortar, either:
(1) welding the breech block to the breech ring in at least two places; or
(2) cutting of at least one side of the breech ring along the long axis of the cavity that receives the breech block;

(C) severing of the tube into two parts at a distance of no more than 100 millimetres from the breech ring;

(D) severing of the left trunnion of the cradle and the mounting area of that trunnion in the upper carraige; and

(E) severing of the trails, or the base plate of the mortar, into two approximately equal parts.

3. Procedure for destruction by explosive demolition of guns, howitzers, or artillery pieces combining the characteristics of guns and howitzers that are not self-propelled:

(A) explosive charges shall be placed in the tube, on one cradle mount in the upper carriage and on the trails, and detonated so that:
(1) the tube is split or longitudinally torn within 1.5 metres of the breech;
(2) the breech block is torn off, deformed or partially melted;
(3) the attachments between the tube and the breech ring and between one of the trunnions of the cradle and the upper carriage are destroyed or sufficiently damaged to make them further inoperative; and
(4) the trails are separated into two approximately equal parts or sufficiently damaged to make them further inoperative.

4. Procedure for destruction by explosive demolition of mortars that are not self-propelled:
explosive charges shall be placed in the mortar tube and on the base plate so that, when the charges are detonated, the mortar tube is ruptured in its lower half and the base plate is severed into two approximately equal parts.

5. Procedure for destruction by deformation of mortars that are not self-propelled;

(A) the mortar tube shall be visibly bent approximately at its mid-point; and

(B) the base plate shall be bent approximately on the centreline at an angle of at least 45 degrees.

6. Procedure for destruction by severing of self-propelled guns, howitzers, artillery pieces combining the characteristics of guns and howitzers or mortars:

(A) removal of special equipment, including detachable equipment, that ensures the operation of the gun, howitzer, artillery piece combining the characteristics of guns and howitzers or mortar;

(B) for the breech system, if any, of the gun, howitzer, artillery piece, combining the characteristics of guns and howitzers or mortar, either:
(1) welding the breech block to the breech ring in at least two places; or
(2) cutting of at least one side of the breech ring along the long axis of the cavity that receives the breech block;

(C) severing of the tube into two parts at a distance of no more than 100 millimetres from the breech ring;

(D) severing of the left trunnion and trunnion mount; and

(E) severing of sections of both sides from the hull which include the final drive apertures, by vertical and horizontal cuts in the side plates and diagonal cuts in the deck or belly plates and front or rear plates, so that the final drive apertures are contained in the severed portions.

7. Procedure for destruction by explosive demolition of self-propelled guns, howitzers, artillery pieces combining the characteristics of guns and howitzers or mortars:

(A) for self-propelled guns, howitzers, artillery pieces combining the characteristics of guns and howitzers or mortars with a turret: the method specified for battle tanks in Section III, paragraph 3 of this Protocol shall be applied in order to achieve results equivalent to those specified in that provision; and

(B) for self-propelled guns, howitzers, artillery pieces combining the characteristics of guns and howitzers or mortars without a turret: an explosive charge shall be placed in the hull under the forward edge of the traversing deck that supports the tube, and detonated so as to separate the deck plate from the hull. For the destruction of the weapon system, the method specified for guns, howitzers, or artillery pieces combining the characteristics of guns and howitzers in paragraph 3 of this Section shall be applied in order to achieve results equivalent to those specified in that provision. 

8. Procedure for destruction by smashing of self-propeleld guns, howitzers, artillery pieces combining the characteristics of guns and howitzers or mortars:

(A) a heavy steel wrecking ball, or the equivalent, shall be dropped repeatedly onto the hull and turret, if any, until the hull is cracked in at least three separate places and the turret in at least one place;

(B) the hits of the ball on the turret shall render either of the trunnions and its trunnion mount inoperative, and deform visibly the breech ring; and

(C) the tube shall be visibly cracked or bent at approximately its mid-point.

9. Procedure for destruction by severing of multiple launch rocket systems:

(A) removal of special equipment from the multiple launch rocket system, including detachable equipment, that ensures the operation of its combat systems; and

(B) removal of tubes or launch rails, screws (gears) of elevation mechanism sectors, tube bases or launch rail bases and their rotatable parts and severing them into two approximately equal parts in areas that are not assembly joints.

10. Procedure for destruction by explosive demolition of multiple launch rocket systems:
a linear shaped charge shall be placed across the tubes or launcher rails, and tube or launcher rail bases. When detonated, the charge shall sever the tubes or launcher rails, tube or launcher rail bases and their rotatable parts, into two approximately equal parts in areas that are not assembly joints.

11. Procedure for destruction by deformation of multiple launch rocket systems:
all tubes or launcher rails, tube or launcher rail bases and the sighting system shall be visibly bent at approximately the mid-point.

Section VI
PROCEDURES FOR THE REDUCTION OF COMBAT AIRCRAFT BY DESTRUCTION

1. Each State Party shall have the right to choose any one of the following sets of procedures each time it carries out the destruction of combat aircraft at reduction sites.

2. Procedure for destruction by severing:
the fuselage of the aircraft shall be divided into three parts not on assembly joints by severing its nose immediately forward of the cockpit and its tail in the central wing section area so that assembly joints, if there are any in the areas to be severed, shall be contained in the severed portions.
3. Procedure for destruction by deformation:
the fuselage of the aircraft shall be divided into three parts not on assembly joints by severing its nose immediately forward of the cockpit and its tail in the central wing section area so that assembly joints, if there are any in the areas to be severed, shall be contained in the severed portions.
4. Procedure for destruction by use as target drones:

(A) each State Party shall have the right to reduce by use as target drones no more than 200 combat aircraft during the 40-month reduction period;

(B) the target drone shall be destroyed in flight by munitions fired by the armed forces of the State Party owning the target drone;

(C) if the attempt to shoot down the target drone fails and it is subsequently destroyed by a self-destruct mechanism, the procedures of this paragraph shall continue to apply. Otherwise the target drone may be recovered or may be claimed destroyed by accident in accordance with Section IX of this Protocol, depending on the circumstances; and

(D) notification of destruction shall be made to all other States Parties. Such notification shall include the type of the destroyed target drone and the location where it was destroyed. Within 90 days of the notification, the State Party claiming such reduction shall send documentary evidence, such as a report of the investigation, to all other States Parties. In the event of ambiguities relating to the destruction of a particular target drone, reduction shall not be considered complete until final resolution of the matter. 
Section VII
PROCEDURES FOR THE REDUCTION OF ATTACK HELICOPTERS BY DESTRUCTION

1. Each State Party shall have the right to choose any one of the following sets of procedures each time it carries out the destruction of attack helicopters at reduction sites.

2. Procedure for destruction by severing:

(A) the tail boom or tail part shall be severed from the fuselage so that the assembly joint is contained in the severed portion; and

(B) at least two transmission mounts on the fuselage shall be severed, fused or deformed.

3. Procedure for destruction by explosive demolition:
any type and number of explosives may be used so that, at a minimum, after detonation the fuselage is cut into two pieces through that section of the fuselage that contains the transmission mounting area.

4. Procedure for destruction by deformation:
the fuselage shall be deformed throughout by compression so that its height, width or length is reduced by at least 30 percent.
Section VIII
RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR REDUCTION OF CONVENTIONAL ARMAMENTS AND EQUIPMENT 
LIMITED BY THE TREATY BY CONVERSION FOR NON-MILITARY PURPOSES
 

1. Each State Party shall have the right to reduce a certain number of battle tanks and armoured combat vehicles by conversion. The types of vehicles that may be converted are listed in paragraph 3 of this Section and the specific non-military purposes for which they may be converted are listed in paragraph 4 of this Section. Converted vehicles shall not be placed in service with the conventional armed forces of a State Party.

2. Each State Party shall determine the number of battle tanks and armoured combat vehicles it will convert. This number shall not exceed:

(A) for battle tanks, 5.7 percent (not to exceed 750 battle tanks) of the maximum level for holdings of battle tanks it notified at the signature of the Treaty pursuant to Article VII of the Treaty, or 150 items whichever is the greater; and

(B) for armoured combat vehicles, 15 percent (not to exceed 3,000 armoured combat vehicles) of the maximum level for holdings of armoured combat vehicles it notified at the signature of the Treaty pursuant to Article VII of the Treaty, or 150 items whichever is the greater. 

3. The following vehicles may be converted for non-military purposes: T-54, T-55, T-64, T-72, Leopard 1, BMP-1, BTR-60, OT-64. The States Parties, within the framework of the Joint Consultative Group, may make changes to the list of vehicles which may be converted to non-military purposes. Such changes, pursuant to Article XVI, paragraph 5 of the Treaty shall be deemed improvements to the viability and effectiveness of the Treaty relating only to minor matters of a technical nature.

4. Such vehicles shall be converted for the following specific non-military purposes:

(A) general purpose prime movers;
(B) bulldozers;
(C) fire fighting vehicles;
(D) cranes;
(E) power unit vehicles;
(F) mineral fine crushing vehicles;
(G) quarry vehicles;
(H) rescue vehicles;
(I) casualty evacuation vehicles;
(J) transportation vehicles;
(K) oil rig vehicles;
(L) oil and chemical product spill cleaning vehicles;
(M) tracked ice breaking prime movers;
(N) environmental vehicles.

The States Parties, within the framework of the Joint Consultative Group, may make changes to the list of specific non-military purposes. Such changes, pursuant to Article XVI, paragraph 5 of the Treaty shall be deemed improvements to the viability and effectiveness of the Treaty relating only to minor matters of a technical nature.

5. On entry into force of the Treaty, each State Party shall notify to all other States Parties the number of battle tanks and armoured combat vehicles that it plans to convert in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty. Notification of a State Party's intention to carry out conversion in accordance with this Section shall be given to all other States Parties at least 15 days in advance in accordance with Section X, paragraph 5 of the Protocol on Inspection. It shall specify the number and types of vehicles to be converted, the starting date and completion date of conversion, as well as the specific non-military purpose vehicles to emerge after conversion.

6. The following procedures shall be carried out before conversion of battle tanks and armoured combat vehicles at reduction sites:

(A) for battle tanks:
(1) removal of special equipment from the chassis, including detachable equipment, that ensures the operation of on-board armament systems;
(2) removal of the turret, if any;
(3) for the gun breech system, either:

(a) welding the breech block to the breech ring in at least two places; or
(b) cutting of at least one side of the breech ring along the long axis of the cavity that receives the breech block;

(4) severing of the gun tube into two parts at a distance of no more than 100 millimetres from the breech ring;
(5) severing of either of the gun trunnions and its trunnion mount in the turret; and
(6) cutting out and removal of a portion of the hull top armour beginning from the front glacis to the middle of the hull turret aperture, together with the associated portions of the side armour at a height of no less than 200 millimetres (for the T-64 and T-72, no less than 100 millimetres) below the level of the hull top armour, as well as the associated portion of the front glacis plate severed at the same height. The severed portion of this front glacis plate shall consist of no less than the upper third; and

(B) for armoured combat vehicles:
(1) for all armoured combat vehicles, removal of special equipment from the chassis, including detachable equipment, that ensures the operation of on-board armament systems;
(2) for rear-engined vehicles, cutting out and removal of a portion of the hull top armour from the front glacis to the bulkhead of the engine-transmission compartment, together with the associated portions of the side and front armour at a height of no less than 300 millimetres below the level of the top of the assault crew compartment;
(3) for front-engined vehicles, cutting out and removal of a portion of the hull top armour plate from the bulkhead of the engine-transmission compartment to the rear of the vehicle, together with the associated portions of the side armour at a height of no less than 300 millimetres below the level of the top of the assault crew compartment; and
(4) in addition, for armoured infantry fighting vehicles and heavy armament combat vehicles:

(a) removal of the turret;
(b) severing of either of the gun trunnions and its trunnion mount in the turret;
(c) or the gun breech system:
(i) welding the breech block to the breech ring in at least two places;
(ii) cutting of at least one side of the breech ring along the long axis of the cavity that receives the breech block; or
(iii) severing of the breech casing into two approximately equal parts; and
(d) severing of the gun tube into two parts at a distance of no more than 100 millimetres from the breech ring.

7. Battle tanks and armoured combat vehicles being reduced pursuant to paragraph 6 of this Section shall be subject to inspection, without right of refusal, in accordance with Section X of the Protocol on Inspection. Battle tanks and armoured combat vehicles shall be deemed reduced upon completion of the procedures specified in paragraph 6 of this Section and notification in accordance with Section X of the Protocol on Inspection.

8. Vehicles reduced pursuant to paragraph 7 of this Section shall remain subject to notification pursuant to Section IV of the Protocol on Information Exchange until final conversion for non-military purposes has been completed and notification has been made in accordance with Section X, paragraph 12 of the Protocol on Inspection.

9. Vehicles undergoing final conversion for non-military purposes shall also be subject to inspection in accordance with Section X of the Protocol on Inspection, with the following chnages:

(A) the process of final conversion at a reduction site shall not be subject to inspection; and

(B) all other States Parties shall have the right to inspect fully converted vehicles, without right of refusal, upon receipt of a notification from the State Party conducting final conversion specifying when final conversion procedures will be completed.

10. If, having completed the procedures specified in paragraph 6 of this Section on a given vehicle, it is decided not to proceed with final conversion, then the vehicle shall be destroyed within the time limits for conversion set forth in Article VIII of the Treaty in accordance with the appropriate procedures set forth elsewhere in this Protocol.

Section IX
PROCEDURE IN THE EVENT OF DESTRUCTION BY ACCIDENT

1. Each State Party shall have the right to reduce its reduction liability for each category of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty in the event of destruction by accident by an amount no greater than 1.5 percent of the maximum levels for holdings it notified at the signature of the Treaty for that category.

2. An item of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty shall be deemed reduced, in accordance with Article VIII of the Treaty, if the accident in which it was destroyed is notified to all other States Parties within seven days of its occurrence. Notification shall include the type of the destroyed item, the date of the accident, the approximate location of the accident and the circumstances related to the accident.

3. Within 90 days of the notification, the State Party claiming such reduction shall provide documentary evidence, such as a report of the investigation, to all other States Parties in accordance with Article XVII of the Treaty. In the event of ambiguities relating to the accident, such reduction shall not be considered complete until final resolution of the matter.

Section X
PROCEDURE FOR REDUCTION BY MEANS OF STATIC DISPLAY

1. Each State Party shall have the right to reduce by means of static display a certain number of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty.

2. No State Party shall use static display to reduce more than one percent or eight items, whichever is the greater number, of its maximum levels for holdings it declared at the signature of the Treaty for each category of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty.

3. Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Section, each State Party also shall have the right to retain in working order two items of each existing type of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty for the purpose of static display. Such conventional armaments and equipment shall be displayed at museums or other similar sites.

4. Conventional armaments and equipment placed on static display or in museums prior to the signature of the Treaty shall not be subject to any numerical limitations set forth in the Treaty, including the numerical limitations set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Section.

5. Such items to be reduced by means of static display shall undergo the following procedures at reduction sites:

(A) all items to be displayed that are powered by self-contained engines shall have their fuel tanks rendered incapable of holding fuel and:
(1) have their engine(s) and transmission removed and their mounts damaged so that these pieces cannot be refitted; or
(2) have their engine compartment filled with concrete or a polymer resin;
(B) all items to be displayed equipped with 75 millimetre or larger guns with permanently fixed elevation and traversing mechanisms shall have their elevation and traversing mechanisms welded so that the tube can be neither traversed nor elevated. In addition, those items to be displayed which use pinion and rack or pinion and right mechanisms for traversing or elevating shall have three consecutive gear teeth cut off from the rack or ring on each side of the pinion of the gun tube;

(C) all items to be displayed which are equipped with weapon systems that do not meet the criteria set forth in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph shall have their barrel and receiver group filled with either concrete or a polymer resin, beginning at the face of the bolt/breech and ending within 100 millimetres of the muzzle.


Section XI
PROCEDURE FOR REDUCTION BY USE AS GROUND TARGETS

1. Each State Party shall have the right to reduce by use as ground targets a certain number of battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles and selfpropelled pieces of artillery.

2. No State Party shall reduce by use as ground targets number of battle tanks or armoured combat vehicles greater than 2.5 percent of its maximum level for holdings in each of those two categories as notified at the signature of the Treaty pursuant to Article VII of the Treaty. In addition, no State Party shall have the right to reduce by use as ground targets more than 50 self-propelled pieces of artillery. 

3. Conventional armaments and equipment in use as ground targets prior to the signature of the Treaty shall not be subject to any numerical limitations set forth in Articles IV, V or VI of the Treaty, or to the numerical limitations set forth in paragraph 2 of this Section.

4. Such items to be reduced by use as ground targets shall undergo the following procedures at reduction sites:

(A) for battle tanks and self-propelled pieces of artillery:
(1) for the breech system, either:
(a) welding the breech block to the breech ring in at least two places; or
(b) cutting of at least one side of the breech ring along the long axis of the cavity that receives the breech block;
(2) severing of either of the trunnions and its trunion mount in the turret; and
(3) severing of sections from both sides of the hull which include the final drive apertures, by vertical and horizontal cuts in the side plates and diagonal cuts in the deck or belly plates and front or rear plates, such that the final drive apertures are contained in the severed portions; and

(B) for armoured combat vehicles:

(1) for the gun breech system:
(a) welding the breech block to the breech ring in at least two places;
(b) cutting of at least one side of the breech ring along the axis of the cavity that receives the breech block; or
(c) severing of the breech casing into two approximately equal parts;
(2) severing of either of the gun trunnions and its trunnion mount in the turret;
(3) for tracked armoured combat vehicles, severing of sections from both sides of the hull which include the final drive apertures, by vertical and horizontal cuts in the side plates and diagonal cuts in the deck or belly plates and front or rear plates, so that the final drive apertures are contained in the severed portions; and
(4) for wheeled armoured combat vehicles, severing of sections from both sides of the hull which include the front wheel final gearbox mounting areas by vertical, horizontal and irregular cuts in the side, front, deck and belly plates so that the front wheel final gear box mounting areas are included in the severed portions at a distance of no less than 100 millimetres from the cuts.

Section XII
PROCEDURE FOR REDUCTION BY USE FOR GROUND INSTRUCTIONAL PURPOSES

1. Each State Party shall have the right to reduce by use for ground instructional purposes a certain number of combat aircraft and attack helicopters.

2. No State Party shall reduce by use for ground instructional purposes numbers of combat aircraft or attack helicopters greater than five percent of its maximum level for holdings in each of those two categories as notified at the signature of the Treaty pursuant to Article VII of the Treaty.

3. Conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty in use for ground instructional purposes prior to the signature of the Treaty shall not be subject to any numerical limitations set forth in Article IV, V or VI of the Treaty, or the numerical limitations set forth in paragraph 2 of this Section.

4. Such items to be reduced by use for ground instructional purposes shall undergo the following procedures at reduction sites:

(A) for combat aircraft:
(1) severing of the fuselage into two parts in the central wing area;
(2) removal of engines, mutilation of engine mounting points and either filling of all fuel tanks with concrete, polymer or resin setting compounds or removal of the fuel tanks and mutilation of the fuel tank mounting points; or
(3) removal of all internal, external and removable armament and armament systems equipment, removal of the tail fin and mutilation of the tail fin mounting points, and filling of all but one fuel tank with concrete, polymer or resin setting compounds; and
(B) for attack helicopters:
severing of the tail boom or tail part from the fuselage so that the assembly joint is contained in the severed portion.
Protocol on Procedures Governing the Categorisation of Combat Helicopters 
and the Recategorisation of Multi-Purpose Attack Helicopters

The States Parties hereby agree upon procedures and provisions governing the categorisation of combat helicopters and recategorisation of multi-purpose attack helicopters as provided for in Article VIII of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe of November 19, 1990, hereinafter referred to as the Treaty.
Section I
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CATEGORISATION OF
COMBAT HELICOPTERS

1. Combat helicopters shall be categorised as specialised attack, multi-purpose attack or combat support helicopters and shall be listed as such in the Protocol on Existing Types.

2. All models or versions of a specialised attack helicopter type shall be categorised as specialised attack helicopters.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph 2 of this Section and as a unique exception to that paragraph, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics may hold an aggregate total not to exceed 100 Mi-24R and Mi-24K helicopters equipped for reconnaissance, spotting, or chemical/biological/radiological sampling which shall not be subject to the limitations on attack helicopters in Articles IV and VI of the Treaty. Such helicopters shall be subject to exchange of information in accordance with the Protocol on Information Exchange and to internal inspection in accordance with Section VI, paragraph 30 of the Protocol on Inspection. Mi-24R and Mi-24K helicopters in excess of this limit shall be categorised as specialised attack helicopters regardless of how they are equipped and shall count against the limitations on attack helicopters in Articles IV and VI of the Treaty.

4. Each State Party that holds both combat support and multi-purpose attack models or versions of a helicopter type shall categorise as attack helicopters all helicopters which have any of the features listed in Section III, paragraph 1 of this Protocol and shall have the right to categorise as combat support helicopters any helicopters that have none of the features listed in Section III, paragraph 1 of this Protocol.

5. Each State Party that holds only combat support models or versions of a helicopter type included on both the Multi-Purpose Attack Helicopter and the Combat Support Helicopter lists in the Protocol on Existing Types shall have the right to categorise such helicopters as combat support helicopters.

Section II
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR RECATEGORISATION

1. Only combat helicopters that are categorised as multi-purpose attack helicopters in accordance with the categorisation requirements set forth in this Protocol shall be eligible for recategorisation as combat support helicopters.

2. Each State Party shall have the right to recategorise individual multi-purpose attack helicopters that have any of the features set forth in Section III, paragraph 1 of this Protocol only by conversion and certification. Each State Party shall have the right to recategorise individual multi-purpose attack helicopters that do not have any of the features set forth in Section III, paragraph 1 of this Protocol by certification alone.

3. Each State Party shall use whatever technological means it deems necessary to implement the conversion procedures set forth in Section III of this Protocol.

4. Each combat helicopter subject to the recategorisation procedure shall bear the original manufacturer's serial number permanently stamped in a main airframe structural member.

Section III
PROCEDURES FOR CONVERSION

1. Multi-purpose attack helicopters being converted shall be rendered incapable of further employment of guided weapons by the removal of the following components:

(A) provisions specificially for the attachment of guided weapons, such as special hardpoints or launching devices. Any such special hardpoints which are integral to the helicopter, as well as any special elements of general purpose hardpoints which are designed for use only by guided weapons, shall be rendered incapable of further employment with guided weapons; and

(B) all integrated fire control and aiming systems for guided weapons, including wiring.

2. A State Party shall provide to all other States Parties the following information, either at least 42 days in advance of the conversion of the first helicopter of a type or at entry into force of the Treaty in the event that a State Party declares both multi-purpose attack helicopters and combat support helicopters of the same type:

(A) a basic block diagram portraying all major components of guided weapon integrated fire control and aiming systems as well as components of equipment designed for the attachment of guided weapons, the basic function of the components described in paragraph 1 of this Section, and the functional connections of such components to each other;

(B) a general description of the conversion process, including a list of components to be removed; and

(C) a photograph of each component to be removed, illustrating its position in the helicopter prior to its removal, and a photograph of the same position after the corresponding component has been removed.

Section IV
PROCEDURES FOR CERTIFICATION

1. Each State Party that is recategorising multi-purpose attack helicopters shall comply with the following certification procedures in order to ensure that such helicopters do not possess any of the features listed in Section III, paragraph 1 of this Protocol.

2. Each State Party shall notify all other States Parties of each certification in accordance with Section IX, paragraph 3 of the Protocol on Inspection.

3. Each State Party shall have the right to inspect the certification of helicopters in accordance with Section IX of the Protocol on Inspection.

4. The process of recategorisation shall be deemed complete when the certification procedures set forth in this Section have been completed regadless of whether any State Party exercises the certification inspection rights described in paragraph 3 of this Section and Section IX of the Protocol on Inspection, provided that within 30 days of receipt of the notification of completion of the certification and reccategorisation provided pursuant to paragraph 5 of this Section no State Party has notified all other States Parties that it considers that there is an ambiguity relating to the certification and recategorisation process. In the event of such an ambiguity being raised, such recategorisation shall not be deemed complete until the matter relating to the ambiguity is resolved.

5. The State Party conducting the certification shall notify all other States Parties in accordance with Section IX of the Protocol on Inspection of completion of the certification and recategorisation.

6. Certification shall be conducted within the area of application. States Parties belonging to the same group of States Parties shall have the right to share locations for certification.

Section V
PROCEDURES FOR INFORMATION EXCHANGE AND VERIFICATION

All combat helicopters within the area of application shall be subject to information exchange in accordance with the provisions of the Protocol on Information Exchange and verification, including inspection, in accordance with the Protocol on Inspection.

Protocol on Notification and Exchange of Information

The States Parties hereby agree on procedures and provisions regarding notification and exchange of information pursuant to Article XIII of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe of November 19, 1990, hereinafter referred to as the Treaty.
Section I
INFORMATION ON THE STRUCTURE OF EACH STATE PARTY'S LAND FORCES AND AIR
AND AIR DEFENCE AVIATION FORCES WITHIN THE AREA OF APPLICATION

1. Each State Party shall provide to all other States Parties the following information about the structure of its land forces and air and air defence aviation forces within the area of application:

(A) the command organisation of its land forces, specifying the designation and subordination of all combat, combat support and combat service support formations and units at each level of command down to the level of brigade/regiment or equivalent level, including air defence formations and units subordinated at or below the military district or equivalent level. Independent units at the next level of command below the brigade/regiment level directly subordinate to formations above the brigade/regiment level (i.e., independent battalions) shall be identified, with the information indicating the formation or unit to which such units are subordinated; and

(B) the command organisation of its air and air defence aviation forces, specifying the designation and subordination of formations and units at each level of command down to wing/air regiment or equivalent level. Independent units at the next level of command below the wing/air regiment level directly subordinate to formations above the wing/air regiment level (i.e., independent squadrons) shall be identified, with the information indicating the formation or unit to which such units are subordinated.

Section II
INFORMATION ON THE OVERALL HOLDINGS IN EACH CATEGORY OF 
CONVENTIONAL ARMAMENTS AND EQUIPMENT LIMITED BY THE TREATY

1. Each State Party shall provide to all other States Parties information on:

(A) overall numbers and numbers by type of its holdings in each category of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty; and

(B) overall numbers and numbers by type of its holdings of battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles and artillery limited by the Treaty in each of the areas described in Articles IV and V of the Treaty.

Section III
INFORMATION ON THE LOCATION, NUMBERS AND TYPES OF 
CONVENTIONAL ARMAMENTS AND EQUIPMENT IN SERVICE WITH THE 
CONVENTIONAL ARMED FORCES OF THE STATES PARTIES

1. For each of its formations and units notified pursuant to Section I, paragraph 1, subparagraphs (A) and (B) of this Protocol, as well as separately located battalions/squadrons or equivalents subordinate to those formations and units, each State Party shall provide to all other States Parties the following information:

(A) the designation and peacetime location of its formations and units at which conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty in the following categories are held, including headquarters, specifying the geographic name and coordinates:
(1) battle tanks;
(2) armoured combat vehicles;
(3) artillery;
(4) combat aircraft; and
(5) attack helicopters;

(B) the holdings of its formations and units notified pursuant to subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, giving numbers (by type in the case of formations and units at the level of division or equivalent and below) of the conventional armaments and equipment listed in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, and of:
(1) combat support helicopters;
(2) unarmed transport helicopters;
(3) armoured vehicle launched bridges, specifying those in active units;
(4) armoured infantry fighting vehicle look-alikes;
(5) armoured personnel carrier look-alikes;
(6) primary trainer aircraft;
(7) reclassified combat-capable trainer aircraft; and
(8) Mi-24R and Mi-24K helicopters not subject to the numerical limitations set forth in Article IV, paragraph I and Article VI of the Treaty ; [Pursuant to Section I, paragraph 3 of the Protocol on Helicoper Recategorisation.]
(C) the designation and peacetime location of its formations and units, other than those notified pursuant to subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, at which the following categories of conventional armaments and equipment, as defined in Article II of the Treaty, specified in the Protocol on Existing Types, or enumerated in the Protocol on Aircraft Reclassification, are held, including headquarters, specifying the geographic name and coordinates:
(1) combat support helicopters;
(2) unarmed transport helicopters;
(3) armoured vehicle launched bridges;
(4) armoured infantry fighting vehicle look-alikes;
(5) armoured personnel carrier look-alikes;
(6) primary trainer aircraft;
(7) reclassified combat-capable trainer aircraft; and
(8) Mi-24R and Mi-24K helicopters not subject to the numerical limitations set forth in Article IV, paragraph 1 and Article VI of the Treaty;[Pursuant to Section I, paragraph 3 of the Protocol on Helicoper Recategorisation.] and

(D) the holdings of its formations and units notified pursuant to subparagraph (C) of this paragraph giving numbers (by type in the case of formations and units at the level of division or equivalent and below) in each category specified above; and, in the case of armoured vehicle launched bridges, those which are in active units.

2. Each State Party shall provide to all other States Parties information on conventioanl armaments and equipment in service with its conventional armed forces but not held by its land forces or air or air defence aviation forces, specifying:

(A) the designation and peacetime location of its formations and units down to the level of brigade/regiment, wing/air regiment or equivalent as well as units at the next level of command below the brigade/regiment, wing/air regiment level which are separately located or are independent (i.e., battalions/squadrons or equivalent) at which conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty in the following categories are held, including headquarters, specifying the geographic name and coordinates:
(1) battle tanks;
(2) armoured combat vehicles;
(3) artillery;
(4) combat aircraft; and
(5) attack helicopters; and

(B) the holdings of its formations and units notified pursuant to subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, giving numbers (by type in the case of formations and units at the level of division or equivalent and below) of conventional armaments and equipment listed in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, and of:
(1) combat support helicopters;
(2) unarmed transport helicopters;
(3) armoured vehicle launched bridges, spceifying those in active units;
(4) armoured infantry fighting vehicle look-alikes;
(6) primary trainer aircraft;
(7) reclassified combat-capable trainer aircraft; and
(8) Mi-24R and Mi-24K helicopters not subject to the numerical limitations set forth in Article IV, paragraph 1 and Article VI of the Treaty. [Pursuant to Section I, paragraph 3 of the Protocol on Helicopter Recategorisation.]

3. Each State Party shall provide to all other States Parties the following information:

(A) the location of its designated permanent storage sites, specifying geographic name and coordinates, and the numbers and types of conventional armaments and equipment in the categories listed in paragraph 1, subparagraphs (A) and (B) of this Section held at such sites;

(B) the location of its military storage sites not organic to formations and units identified as objects of verification, independent repair and maintenance units, military training establishments and military airfields, specifying geographic name and coordinates, at which conventional armaments and equipment in the categories listed in paragraph 1, subparagraphs (A) and (B) of this Section are held or routinely present, giving the holdings by type in each category at such locations; and

(C) the location of its sites at which the reduction of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty will be undertaken pursuant to the Protocol on Reduction, specifying the location by geographic name and coordinates, the holdings by type in each category of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty awaiting reduction at such locations, and indicating that it is a reduction site. 

Section IV
INFORMATION ON THE LOCATION AND NUMBERS OF BATTLE TANKS, ARMOURED COMBAT VEHICLES, ARTILLERY, COMBAT AIRCRAFT AND ATTACK HELICOPTERS WITHIN THE AREA OF APPLICATION BUT NOT IN SERVICE WITH CONVENTIONAL ARMED FORCES


1. Each State Party shall provide information to all other States Parties on the location and numbers of its battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft and attack helicopters within the area of application not in service withh its conventioanl armed forces but of potential military significance.

(A) Accordingly, each State Party shall provide the following information:
(1) in respect of its battle tanks, artillery, combat aircraft and specialised attack helicopters, as well as armoured infantry fighting vehicles as specified in Article XII of the Treaty, held by organisations down to the independent or separately located battalion or equivalent level designed and structured to perform in peacetime internal security functions, the location, including geographic name and coordinates, of sites at which such armaments and equipment are held and the numbers and types of conventional armaments and equipment in these categories held by each such organisation;
(2) in respect of its armoured personnel carriers, heavy armament combat vehicles and multi-purpose attack helicopters held by organisations designed and structured to perform in peacetime internal security functions, the aggregate numbers in each category of such armaments and equipment in each administrative region or division;
(3) in respect of its battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft and attack helicopters awaiting disposal having been decommissioned in accordance with the provisions of Article IX of the Treaty, the location, including geographic name and coordinates, of sites at which such armaments and equipment are held and the numbers and types at each site;
(4) in respect of its battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft and attack helicopters, each State Party shall provide to all other States Parties, following entry into force of the Treaty and coincident with each annual exchange of information pursuant to Section VII, paragraph 1, subparagraph (C) of this Protocol, an identifiable location of each site at which there are normally more than a total of 15 battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles and pieces of artillery or more than five combat aircraft or more than 10 attack helicopters which are, pursuant to Article III, paragraph 1, subparagraph (E) of the Treaty, awaiting or are being refurbished for export or re-export and are temporarily retained witin the area of application. Each State Party shall provide to all other States Parties, following entry into force of the Treaty and coincident with each annual exchange of information pursuant to Section VII, paragraph 1, subparagraph (C) of this Protocol, the numbers of such battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft and attack helicopters. The States Parties shall, within the framework of the Joint Consultative Group, agree as to the form in which the information on the numbers shall be provided pursuant to this provision;
(5) in respect of its battle tanks and armoured combat vehicles which have been reduced and are awaiting conversion pursuant to Section VIII of the Protocol on Reduction, the location, including geographic name and coordinates, of each site at which such armaments and equipment are held and the numbers and types at each site; and
(6) in respect of its battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft and attack helicopters used exclusively for the purpose of research and development pursuant to Article III, paragraph 1, subparagraph (B) of the Treaty, each State Party shall provide to all other States Parties following entry into force of the Treaty and coincident with each annual exchange of information pursuant to Section VII, paragraph 1, subparagraph (C) of this Protocol the aggregate numbers in each category of such conventional armaments and equipment.
Section V
INFORMATION ON OBJECTS OF VERIFICATION AND DECLARED SITES

1. Each State Party shall provide to all other States Parties information specifying its objects of verification, including the total number and the designation of each object of verification, and enumerating its declared sites, as defined in Section I of the Protocol on Inspection, providing the following information on each site:

(A) the site's designation and location, including geographic name and coordinates;

(B) the designation of all objects of verification, as specified in Section I, paragraph 1, subparagraph (J) of the Protocol on Inspection, at that site, it being understood that subordinate elements at the next level of command below the brigade/regiment or wing/air regiment level located in the vicinity of each other or of the headquarters immediately superior to such elements may be deemed as not separately located, if the distance between such separately located battalions/squadrons or equivalent or to their headquarters does not exceed 15 kilometres;

(C) the overall numbers by type of conventional armaments and equipment in each category specified in Section III of this Protocol held at that site and by each object of verification, as well as those belonging to any object of verification located at another declared site, specifying the designation of each such object of verification;

(D) in addition, for each such declared site, the number of conventional armaments and equipment not in service with its conventional armed forces, indicating those that are:
(1) battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft and attack helicopters awaiting disposal having been decommissioned in accordance with the provisions of Article IX of the Treaty or reduced and awaiting conversion pursuant to the Protocol on Reduction; and
(2) battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft and attack helicopters held by organisations designed and structured to perform in peacetime internal security functions;
(E) declared sites that hold battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft or attack helicopters awaiting or being refurbished for export or re-export and temporarily retained within the area of application or used exclusively for research and development shall be identified as such, and the aggregate numberse in each category at that site shall be provided; and

(F) point(s) of entry/exit associated with each declared site, including geographic name and coordinates.

Section VI
INFORMATION ON THE LOCATION OF SITES FROM WHICH 
CONVENTIONAL ARMAMENTS AND EQUIPMENT HAVE BEEN WITHDRAWN

1. Each State Party shall provide annually to all other States Parties, coincident with the annual exchange of information provided pursuant to Section VII, paragraph 1, subparagraph (C) of this Protocol, information about the locations of sites which have been notified previously as declared sites from which all conventional armaments and equipment in the categories listed in Section III, paragraph 1 of this Protocol have been withdrawn since the signature of the Treaty if such sites continue to be used by the conventional armed forces of that State Party. The locations of these sites shall be notified for three years following such withdrawal.

Section VII
TIMETABLE FOR THE PROVISION OF INFORMATION
IN SECTIONS I TO V OF THIS PROTOCOL

1. Each State Party shall provide to all other States Parties the information pursuant to Section I to V of this Protocol as follows:

(A) upon signature of the Treaty, with information effective as of that date; and no later than 90 days after signature of the Treaty, each State Party shall provide to all other States Parties within the framework of the Joint Consultative Group any necessary corrections to its information reported pursuant to Sections III, IV and V of this Protocol. Such corrected information shall be deemed information provided at Treaty signature and valid as of that date;

(B) 30 days following entry into force of the Treaty, with information effective as of the date of entry into force;

(C) on the 15th day of December of the year in which the Treaty comes into force (unless entry into force occurs within 60 days of the 15th day of December), and on the 15th day of December of every year thereafter, with the information effective as of the first day of January of the following year; and

(D) following completion of the 40-month reduction period specified in Article VIII of the Treaty, with information effective as of that date.

Section VIII
INFORMATION ON CHANGES IN ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURES OR FORCE LEVELS

1. Each State Party shall notifiy all other States Parties of:

(A) any permanent change in the organisational structure of its conventional armed forces within the area of application as notified pursuant to Section I of this Protocol at least 42 days in advance of that change; and

(B) any change of 10 percent or more in any one of the categories of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty assigned to any of its combat, combat support or combat service support formations and units down to the brigade/regiment, wing/air regiment, independent or separately located battalion/squadron or equivalent level as notified in Section III, paragraph 1, subparagraphs (A) and (B) and paragraph 2, subparagraphs (A) and (B) of this Protocol since the last annual exchange of information. Such notification shall be given no later than five days after such change occurs, indicating actual holdings after the notified change.


Section IX
INFORMATION ON THE ENTRY INTO AND REMOVAL FROM SERVICE WITH THE 
CONVENTIONAL ARMED FORCES OF A STATE PARTY OF
CONVENTIONAL ARMAMENTS AND EQUIPMENT LIMITED BY THE TREATY

1. Each State Party shall provide to all other States Parties following entry into force of the Treaty coincident with each annual exchange of information provided pursuant to Section VII, paragraph 1, subparagraph (C) of this Protocol:

(A) aggregate information on the numbers and types of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty which entered into service with its conventional armed forces within the area of application during the previous 12 months; and

(B) aggregate information on the numbers and types of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty which have been removed from service with its conventional armed forces within the area of application during the previous 12 months.

Section X
INFORMATION ON ENTRY INTO AND EXIT FROM THE AREA OF APPLICATION 
OF CONVENTIONAL ARMAMENTS AND EQUIPMENT LIMITED BY THE TREATY 
IN SERVICE WITH THE CONVENTIONAL ARMED FORCES OF THE STATES PARTIES

1. Each State Party shall provide annually to all other States Parties following entry into force of the Treaty and coincident with each annual exchange of information provided pursuant to Section VII, paragraph 1, subparagraph (C) of this Protocol:

(A) aggregate information on the numbers and types of each category of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty in service with its ocnventional armed forces that have entered the area of application within the last 12 months and whether any of these armaments and equipment were organised in a formation or unit;

(B) aggregate information on the numbers and types of each category of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty in service with its conventional armed forces that have been removed from, and remain outside of, the area of application within the last 12 months and the last reported locations within the area of application of such conventional armaments and equipment; and

(C) conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty in service with its conventional armed forces within the area of application which exit and re-enter the area of application, including for purposes such as training or military activities, within a seven-day period shall not be subject to the reporting provisions in this Section.

Section XI
CONVENTIONAL ARMAMENTS AND EQUIPMENT IN TRANSIT 
THROUGH THE AREA OF APPLICATION

1. The provisions of this Protocol shall not apply to conventional armaments and equipment that are in transit through the area of application from a location outside the area of application to a final destination outside the area of application. Conventional armaments and equipment in the categories specified in Section III of this Protocol which entered the area of application in transit shall be reported pursuant to this Protocol if they remain within the area of application for a period longer than seven days.

Section XII
FORMAT FOR THE PROVISION OF INFORMATION

1. Each State Party shall provide to all other States Parties the information specified in this Protocol in accordance with the procedures set forth in Article XVII of the Treaty and the Annex on Format. In accordance with Article XVI, paragraph 5 of the Treaty, changes to the Annex on Format shall be deemed improvements to the viability and effectiveness of the Treaty relating only to minor matters of a technical nature.

Section XIII
OTHER NOTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO THE TREATY

1. After signature of the Treaty and prior to its entry into force, the Joint Consultative Group shall develop a document relating to notifications required by the Treaty. Such document shall list all such notifications, specifying those that shall be made in accordance with Article XVII of the Treaty, and shall include appropriate formats, as necessary, for such notifications. In accordance with Article XVI, paragraph 5 of the Treaty, changes to this document, including any formats, shall be deemed to be improvements ot the viability and effectiveness of the Treaty relating only to minor matters of a technical nature.


Annex on the Format for the Exchange of Information

1. Each State Party shall provide to all other States Parties information pursuant to the Protocol on Information Exchange, hereinafter referred to as the Protocol, in accordance with the formats specified in this Annex. The information in each data listing shall be provided in mechanically or electronically printed form and in one of the six official languages of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. In each table (column a), each data entry shall be assigned a sequential line number.

2. The data listings shall be provided beginning at the highest level and proceeding through each level of command down to the level of brigade/regiment, independent battalion, and wing/air regiment, independent squadron or their equivalent. For example, a military district/army/corps would be followed by any subordinate independent regiments, independent battalions, depots, training establishments, then each subordinate division with its regiments/independent battalions. After all the subordinate organisations are listed, entries shall begin for the next military district/army/corps. An identical procedure shall be followed for air and air defence aviation forces.

(A) Each organisation shall be identified (column b) by a unique designator (i.e., formation or unit record number) which shall be used on subsequent listings with that organisation and for all subsequent information exchanges; its national designation (i.e., name) (column c); and, in the case of divisions, brigades/regiments, independent battalions, and wings/air regiments, independent squadrons or equivalent organisations, where appropriate, the formation or unit type (e.g., infantry, tank, artillery, fighter, bomber, supply); and

(B) For each organisation, the two levels of command within the area of application immediately superior to that organisation shall be designated (columns d and e).


Chart I: COMMAND ORGANISATION OF THE LAND FORCES AND AIR 
AND AIR DEFENCE AVIATION FORCES OF (STATE PARTY) VALID AS OF (DATE)

Section II
INFORMATION ON OVERALL HOLDINGS OF CONVENTIONAL ARMAMENTS AND EQUIPMENT 
SUBJECT TO NUMERICAL LIMITATIONS 
PURSUANT TO ARTICLES IV AND V OF THE TREATY

1. Pursuant to Section II of the Protocol, each State Party shall provide data on its overall holdings by type of battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles and artillery (Chart IIA) subject to the numerical limitations set forth in Articles IV and V of the Treaty (column b), and on its overall holdings by type of combat aircraft and attack helicopters (Chart IIB) subject to the numerical limitations set forth in Article IV of the Treaty (column b).

2. Data on armoured combat vehicles shall include the total numbers of heavy armament combat vehicles, armoured infantry fighting vehicles and armoured personnel carriers, and their number (column f/e) and type (column e/d) in each of these subcategories (column d/c).

3. In the case of battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery and armoured vehicle launched bridges, stored in accordance with Article X of the Treaty, the total of such equipment in designated permanent storage sites shall be specified (column g).

Chart IIA: OVERALL HOLDINGS OF BATTLE TANKS, ARMOURED COMBAT VEHICLES AND ARTILLERY SUBJECT TO NUMERICAL LIMITATION OF (STATE PARTY) VALID AS OF (DATE)

Chart IIB: OVERALL HOLDINGS OF COMBAT AIRCRAFT AND ATTACK HELICOPTERS SUBJECT TO NUMERICAL LIMITATION OF (STATE PARTY) VALID AS OF (DATE)

Section III
INFORMATION ON THE LOCATION, NUMBERS, AND TYPES OF CONVENTIONAL ARMAMENTS 
AND EQUIPMENT IN SERVICE WITH THE CONVENTIONAL ARMED FORCES

1. Each State Party shall provide a hierarchical data listing of all its land forces' and air and air defence aviation forces' organisations reported pursuant to Section III, paragraph 1 of the Protocol, formations and units reported pursuant to Section III, paragraph 2 of the Protocol and installations at which conventional armaments and equipment are held as specified in Section III, paragraph 3 of the Protocol.

2. For each organisation and installation, the information shall reflect:

(A) the formation or unit record number (column b) and designation of the organisation (column c) reported in Chart I. Separately located battalions/squadrons specified pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Section, formations and units reported pursuant to Sectoin III, paragraph 2 of the Protocol and installations listed in accordance with Section III, paragraph 3 of the Protocol shall also be given a unique formation or unit record number (column b), and their national designation (i.e., name) (column c) shall be provided. Their position on the listing shall reflect their subordination with the exception of formations and units reported pursuant to Section III, paragraph 2 of the Protocol, which shall be specified together at the conclusion of the listing:
(1) designated permanent storage sites shall be identified with the notation "DPSS" following the national designation; and
(2) reduction sites shall be identified with the notation "reduction" following the national designation;
(B) location (column d), including the geographic name and coordinates accurate to the nearest 10 seconds. For locations containing stationed forces, the host State Party shall also be included;

(C) for each level of command from the highest down to the division/air division level, the overall total of conventional armaments and equipment in each category (columns f to m/1). For example, the overall total held by a division would be the sum of the holdings of all its subordinate organisations; and

(D) for each level of command at the division level and below as specified in paragraph 1 of this Section, the number of conventional armaments and equipment by type under the headings specified in Charts IIIA and IIIB (columns f to m/1). In the armoured combat vehicle column in Chart IIIA (column g), the subcategories (i.e., armoured personnel carriers, armoured infantry fighting vehicles, heavy armament combat vehicles) shall be presented separately. In the attack helicopter column (column k/i), the subcategories (i.e., specialised attack, multi-purpose atttack) shall be presented separately. The column (l) labelled "other" in Chart IIIB shall include battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, armoured personnel carrier look-alikes, armoured infantry fighting vehicle look-alikes, and armoured vehicle launched infantry fighting vehicle look-alikes, and armoured vehicle launched bridges, if any, in service with the air and air defence aviation forces.

Chart IIIA: INFORMATION ON THE LOCATION, NUMBERS AND TYPES OF CONVNETIONAL ARMAMENTS AND EQUIPMENT PROVIDED PURSUANT TO SECTOIN III OF THE PROTOCOL ON INFORMATION EXCHANGE OF 
(STATE PARTY) VALID AS OF (DATE)

Chart IIIB: INFORMATION ON THE LOCATION, NUMBERS AND TYPES OF CONVENTIONAL ARMAMENTS AND EQUIPMENT PROVIDED PURSUANT TO SECTION III OF THE PROTOCOL ON INFORMATION EXCHANGE OF 
(STATE PARTY) VALID AS OF (DATE)

Section IV
INFORMATION ON CONVENTIONAL ARMAMENTS AND EQUIPMENT NOT IN SERVICE 
WITH THE CONVENTIONAL ARMED FORCES PROVIDED PURSUANT TO SECTION IV 
OF THE PROTOCOL ON INFORMATION EXCHANGE

1. Pursuant to Section IV of the Protocol, each State Party shall provide information on the location, number and type of its battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft and attack helicopters within the area of application but not in service with its conventional armed forces.

2. For each location, the information shall reflect:

(A) the provision of Section IV of the Protocol pursuant to which the information is being provided (column b);

(B) the location (column c):
(1) in respect of conventional armaments and equipment reported pursuant to Section IV, paragraph 1, subparagraph (A), sub-subparagraphs (1), (3) and (5) of the Protocol, the geographic name and coordinates accurate to the nearest 10 seconds of sites containing such equipment; and
(2) in respect of conventional armaments and equipment reported pursuant to Section IV, paragraph 1, subparagraph (A), sub-subparagraph (2) of the Protocol, the national designation of the administrative region or division containing such equipment;

(C) in respect of conventional armaments and equipment reported pursuant to Section IV, paragraph 1, subparagraph (A), sub-subparagraphs (1) and (2) of the Protocol, the national-level designation of organisations holding the equipment specified (column c); and

(D) for each location, the number by type under the headings specified in Chart IV (columns d to h), except as follows:
in respect of conventional armaments and equipment reported pursuant to Section IV, paragraph 1, subparagraph (A), sub-subparagraph (2) of the Protocol, only the numbers in each category shall be provided solely for the administrative region or division specified (column c).


Chart IV: INFORMATION ON THE LOCATION OF CONVENTIONAL ARMAMENTS AND EQUIPMENT 
PROVIDED PURSUANT TO SECTION IV OF THE PROTOCOL ON INFORMATION EXCHANGE OF 
(STATE PARTY) VALID AS OF (DATE)

Section V
INFORMATION ON OBJECTS OF VERIFICATION AND DECLARED SITES

1. Pursuant to Section V of the Protocol, each State Party shall provide a listing of its objects of verification and declared sites, as defined in Section I of the Protocol on Inspection. Declared sites (Chart V) shall be listed in alphabetical order.

2. Information about each declared site shall include:

(A) a unique designator (i.e., declared site record number) (column b) which shall be used with that site for all subsequent information exchanges;

(B) the site's name and location using geographic name and coordinates accurate to the nearest 10 seconds (column c). For locations containing objects of verification of stationed forces, the host State Party shall also be included;

(C) the point(s) of entry/exit associated with the declared site (column d);

(D) a unique sequential number and the designation and formation or unit record number of all objects of verification stationed at the declared site as specified in Section III of this Annex (column e). Unique sequential numbers shall be assigned such that the number assigned to the last object of verification appearing in the listing shall equal the State Party's total number of objects of verification; and

(E) the overall number of conventional armaments and equipment in each category specified in Section III of the Protocol held at the declared site and by each object of verification (columns f to p) and specifying, in addition:
(1) conventional armaments and equipment held in each category on the declared site belonging to an object of verification located at another declared site, specifying the designation and formation or unit record number of each subj object of verification (column e); and
(2) conventional armaments and equipment not belonging to an object of verification shall be identified with the following notations immediately following/below each such entry in columns f to p:
(a) equipment held by organisations designed and structured to perform in peacetime internal security functions, with the notation "security";
(b) decommissioned equipment, with the notation "decommissioned";
(c) equipment awaiting or being refurbished for export or re-export, with the notation "export";
(d) reduced equipment awaiting conversion, with the notation "reduced"; and
(e) equipment used exclusively for research and development, with the notation "research."

Chart V: INFORMATION ON OBJECTS OF VERIFICATION AND DECLARED SITES OF
(STATE PARTY) VALID AS OF (DATE)

3. Each State Party shall provide a listing of points of entry/exit (Chart VI). The listing shall asign a unique sequential numerical designatore (column b) which shall be used to indicate the point(s) of entry/exit for each site provided pursuant to paragraph 2, subparagraph (C) of this Section. The location shall include the geographic name (column c) and coordinates accurate to the nearest 10 second (column d). The type(s) of transportation acceptable--"air," "sea," "ground"--for each point of entry/exit shall also be specified (column e).

Chart VI: POINTS OF ENTRY/EXIT (POE) OF (STATE PARTY) VALID AS OF (DATE)


Chart I: COMMAND ORGANISATION OF THE LAND FORCES AND AIR AND AIR DEFENCE AVIATION FORCES OF (STATE PARTY) VALID AS OF (DATE)

Line Number
Formation or
Unit Record Number
Designation of Formation or Unit
Subordination
1st Higher Echelon	2nd Higher Echelon
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
				
				
				
Chart IIA: OVERALL HOLDINGS OF BATTLE TANKS, ARMOURED COMBAT VEHICLES AND ARTILLERY
SUBJECT TO NUMERICAL LIMITATION OF (STATE PARTY) VALID AS OF (DATE)

Line Number
Area
Category
Sub-Category
Type
Overall Number
(including in DPSSs)
Number in DPSSs
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
						
						
						
						
Chart IIB: OVERALL HOLDINGS OF COMBAT AIRCRAFT AND ATTACK HELICOPTERS SUBJECT TO NUMERICAL LIMITATION OF (STATE PARTY) VALID AS OF (DATE)

Line Number
Category
Sub-Category
Type
Overall Number
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
				
				
				
				
Chart IIIA: INFORMATION ON THE LOCATION, NUMBERS AND TYPES OF CONVENTIONAL ARMAMENTS AND EQUIPMENT PROVIDED PURSUANT TO SECTION III OF THE PROTOCOL ON INFORMATION EXCHANGE OF 
(STATE PARTY) VALID AS OF (DATE)

Line Number
Formation of Unit Record Number
Designation of Formation or Unit
Peacetime Location
NOT USED
Battle Tanks
Armoured Combat Vehicles
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
						
						
						
						
APC & AII-V Look-Alikes
Artillery
AVLBs
Attack Helicopters
Combat Support Helicopters
Unarmed Transport Helicopters
(h)
(i)
(j)
(k)
(l)
(m)
					
					
					
					
Chart IIIB: INFORMATION ON THE LOCATION, NUMBERS AND TYPES OF CONVENTIONAL ARMAMENTS AND EQUIPMENT PROVIDED PURSUANT TO SECTION III OF THE PROTOCOL ON INFORMATION EXCHANGE OF 
(STATE PARTY) VALID AS OF (DATE)

Line Number
Formation or Unit Record Number
Designation of Formation or Unit
Peacetime Location
NOT USED
Combat Aircraft
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
					
					
					
					
Reclassified 
CCT Aircraft
Primary 
Trainer Aircraft
Attack Helicopters
Combat Support Helicopters
Unarmed Transport Helicopters
Other
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
(k)
(l)
					
					
					
					
Chart IV: INFORMATION ON THE LOCATION OF CONVENTIONAL ARMAMENTS AND EQUIPMENT PROVIDED PURSUANT TO SECTION IV OF THE PROTOCOL ON INFORMATION EXCHANGE OF (STATE PARTY) 
VALID AS OF (DATE)


Line Number
Protocol Reference
Location
Location
Battle Tanks
Armoured Combat Vehicles
Artillery
Attack Helicopters
Combat Aircraft
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
							
							
							
							
Chart V: INFORMATION ON OBJECTS OF VERIFICATION AND DECLARED SITES OF (STATE PARTY) VALID AS OF (DATE)


Line Number
Declared Site 
Record Number
Location
Point of Entry/Exit
Object of Verification
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
				
				
				
				
Battle Tanks
Armoured Combat Vehicles
APC & AII-V Look-Alikes
Artillery
AVLBs
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
				
				
				
				
Attack Helicopters
Combat Support Helicopters
Unarmed Transport Helicopters
Combat Aircraft
Reclassified 
CCT Airfcraft
Primary 
Trainer Aircraft
(k)
(l)
(m)
(n)
(o)
(p)
					
					
					
					
Chart VI: POINTS OF ENTRY/EXIT (POE) OF (STATE PARTY) VALID AS OF (DATE)


Line Number
POE 
Number
Name of POE
Location
Type(s)
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
				
				
				
				
Protocol on Inspection

The States Parties hereby agree on procedures and other provisions governing the conduct of inspections as provided for in Article XIV of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe of November 19,1990, hereinafter referred to as the Treaty. 
Section I
DEFINITIONS

1. For the purposes of the Treaty:

(A) The term "inspected State Party" means a State Party on whose territory an inspection is carried out in compliance with Article XIV of the Treaty:
(1) in the case of inspection sites where only a stationing State Party's conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty are present, such a stationing State Party shall exercise, in compliance with the provisions of this Protocol, the rights and obligations of the inspected State Party as set forth in this Protocol for the duration of the inspection within that inspection site where its conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty are located; and
(2) in the case of inspection sites containing conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty of more than one State Party, each such State Party shall exercise, in compliance with the provisions of this Protocol, each in respect of its own conventional armaments and equjipment limited by the Treaty, the rights and obligations of the inspected State Party as set forth in this Protocol for the duration of the inspection within that inspection site where its conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty are located.
(B) The term "stationing State Party"means a State Party stationing conventional armaments and equipment in service with its conventional armed forces outside its own territory and within the area of application.

(C) The term "host State Party" means a State Party receiving on its territory within the area of application conventional armaments and equipment in service with the conventional armed forces of another State Party stationed by that State Party.

(D) The term "inspecting State Party"means a State Party which requests and is therefore responsible for carrying out an inspection.

(E) The term "inspector" means an individual designated by one of the States Parties to carry out an inspection and who is included on that State Party's accepted list of inspectors in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Protocol.

(F) The term "transport crew member" means an individual who performs duties related to the operation of a transportation means and who is included on a State Party's accepted list of transport crew members in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Protocol.

(G) The term "inspection team" means a group of inspectors designated by an inspecting State Party to conduct a particular inspection.

(H) The term "escort team" means a group of individuals assigned by an inspected State Party to accompany and to assist inspectors conducting a particular inspection, as well as to assume other responsibilities as set forht in this Protocol. In the case of inspection of a stationing State Party's conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty, an escort team shall include individuals assigned by both the host and stationing States Parties, unless otherwise agreed between them.

(I) The term "inspection site" means an area, location or facility where an inspection is carried out.

(J) The term "object of verification" means:
(1) any formation or unit at the organisational level of brigade/regiment, wing/air regiment, independent battalion/artillery battalion, independent squadron or equivalent as well as any separately located battalion/squadron or equivalent unit at the next level of command below the brigade/regiment, wing/air regiment level holding conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty at a location notified pursuant to Section III, paragraph 1, subparagraph (A) of the Protocol on Information Exchange;

(2) any designated permanent storage site, military storage site not organic to formations and units referred to in sub-subparagraph (1) of this subparagraph, independent repair or maintenance unit, military training establishment or military airfield at which conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty are notified pursuant to Section III, paragraph 3, subparagraphs (A) and (B) of the Protocol on Information Exchange as being permanently or routinely present.

(3) a reduction site for conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty as notified pursuant to Section III, paragraph 3, subparagraph (C) of the Protocol on Information Exchange;

(4) in the case of units below the level of battalion holding conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty that are directly subordinate to a unit or formation above the level of brigade/regiment or equivalent, that unit or formation to which the units below the level of battalion are subordinated shall be considered an object of verification, if it has no subordinate unit or formation at the level of brigade/regiment or equivalent; and

(5) a formation or unit holding conventional armaments and equipment subject to the Treaty, but not in service with the conventional armed forces of a State Party shall not be considered an object of verification.
(K) The term "military airfield" means a permanent military complex, not otherwise containing an object of verification, at which the frequent operation, i.e., launch and recovery, of at least six combat aircraft or combat helicopters limited by the Treaty or subject to internal inspection is routinely performed.

(L) The term "military training establishment" means a facility, not otherwise containing an object of verification, at which a military unit or subunit using at least 30 conventioanl armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty or more than 12 of any single category of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty is organised to train military personnel.

(M) The term "military storage site" not organic to formations and units identified as objects of verification means any storage site, other than designated permanent storage sites or sites subordinate to organisations designed and structured for internal security purposes, holding conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty without respect to organisational or operational status. Conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty contained in such sites shall constitute a portion of the permitted holdings counted in active units pursuant to Article IV of the Treaty.

(N) The term "declared site" means a facility or precisely delineated geographic location which contains one or more objects of verification. A declared site shall consist of all territory within its man-made or natural outer boundary or boundaries as well as associated territory comprising firing ranges, training areas, maintenance and storage areas, helicopter airfields and railroad loading facilities at which battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat helicopters, combat aircraft, reclassified, combat-capable trainer aircraft, armoured personnel carrier look-alikes, armoured infantry fighting vehicle look-alikes or armoured vehicle launched bridges are permanently or routinely present.

(O) The term "specified area" means an area anywhere on the territory of a State Party within the area of application other than a site inspected pursuant to Section VII, IX or X of this Protocol within which a challenge inspection is conducted pursuant to Section VIII of this Protocol. A specified area shall not exceed 65 square kilometres. No straight line between any two points in that area shall exceed 16 kilometres.

(P) The term "sensitive point" means any equipment, structure or location which has been designated to be sensitive by the inspected State Party or the State Party exercising the rights and obligations of the inspected State Party through the escort team and to which access or overflight may be delayed, limited or refused.

(Q) The term "point of entry/exit" means a point designated by a State Party on whose territory an inspection is to be carried out, through which inspection teams and transport crews arrive on the territory of that State Party and through which they depart from the territory of that State Party.

(R) The term "in-country period" means the total time spent continuously on the territory of the State Party where an inspection is carried out by an inspection team for inspections pursuant to Sections VII and VIII of this Protocol from arrival of the inspection team at the point of entry/exit until the return of the inspection team to a point of entry/exit after completion of that inspection team's last inspection.

(S) The term "baseline validation period" means, for the purpose of calculating inspection quotas, the specified time period consisting of the first 120 days following entry into force of the Treaty.

(T) The term "reduction period" means, for the purpose of calculating inspection quotas, the specified time period consisting of the three years following the 120-day baseline validation period.

(U) The term "residual level validation period" means, for the purpose of calculating inspection quotas, the specified time period consisting of the 120 days following the three-year reduction period.

(V) The term "residual period" means, for the purpose of calculating inspection quotas, the specified time period following the 120-day residual level validation period for the duration of the Treaty.

(W) The term "passive declared site inspection quota" means the total number of inspections of objects of verification pursuant to Section VII of this Protocol that each State Party shall be obliged to receive within a specified time period at inspection sites where its objects of verification are located.

(X) The term "passive challenge inspection quota" means the maximum number of challenge inspections within specified areas pursuant to Section VIII of this Protocol that each State Party with territory within the area of aplication shall be obliged to receive within a specified time period.

(Y) The term "active inspection quota" means the total number of inspections pursuant to Sections VII and VIII of this Protocol that each State Party shall be entitled to conduct within a specified time period.

(Z) The term "certification site" means a clearly designated location where the certification of recategorised multi-purpose attack helicopters and reclassified combat-capable trainer aircraft in accordance with the Protocol on Helicopter Recategorisation and the Protocol on Aircraft Reclassificaion takes place.

(AA) The term "calendar reporting period" means a period of time defined in days during which the intended reduction of the planned number of items of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty in accordance with Article VIII of the Treaty is to be carried out.

Section III
GENERAL OBLIGATIONS

1. For the purpose of ensuring verification of compliance with the provisions of the Treaty, each State Party shall facilitate inspections pursuant to this Protocol.

2. In the case of conventional armaments and equipment in service with the conventional armed forces of a State Party stationed in the area of application outside national territory, the host State Party and the stationing State Party shall, in fulfillment of their respective responsibilities, cooperatively ensure compliance with the relevant provisions of this Protocol. The stationing State Party shall be fully responsible for compliance with the Treaty obligations in respect of its conventional armaments and equipment in service with its conventioanl armed forces stationed on the territory of the host State Party.

3. The escort team shall be placed under the responsibility of the inspected State Party:

(A) in the case of inspection sites at which only a stationing State Party's conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty are present and are under this State Party's command, the escort team shall be placed under the responsibility of a representative of the stationing State Party for the duration of the inspection within that inspection site where the stationing State Party's conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty are located; and 

(B) in the case of inspection sites containing conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty of both the host State Party and the stationing State Party, the escort team shall be composed of representatives from both States Parties when conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty of the stationing State Party are actually inspected. During the inspection within that inspection site, the host State Party shall exercise the rights and obligations of the inspected State Party with the exception of those rights and obligations related to the inspection of the conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty of the stationing State Party, which shall be exercised by this stationing State Party.

4. If an inspection team requests access to a structure or premises utilised by another State Party by agreement with the inspected State Party, such other State Party shall, in cooperation with the inspected State Party and to the extent consistent with the agreement on utilisation, exercise the rights and obligations set forth in this Protocol with respect to inspections involving equipment or materiel of the State Party utilising the structure or premises.

5. Structures or premises utilised by another State Party by agreement with the inspected State Party shall be subject to inspection only when that other State Party's representative is on the escort team.

6. Inspection teams and sub-teams shall be under the control and responsibility of the inspecting State Party.

7. No more than one inspection team conducting an inspection pursuant to Section VII or VIII of this Protocol may be present at the same time at any one inspection site.

8. Subject to the other provisions of this Protocol, the inspecting State Party shall decide for how long each inspection team will stay on the territory of the State Party where an inspection is to be carried out, and at how many and at which inspection sites it will conduct inspections during the in-country period.

9. Travel expenses of an inspection team to the point of entry/exit prior to conducting an inspection and from the point of entry/exit after completion of the last inspection shall be borne by the inspecting State Party.

10. Each State Party shall be obliged to receive a number of inspections pursuant to Section VII or VIII of this Protocol not to exceed its passive declared site inspection quota for each specified time period: a 120-day baseline validation period, a three-year reduction period, a 120-day residual level validation period and a residual period for the duration of the Treaty. The passive declared site inspection quota shall be determined for each specified time period as a percentage of that State Party's objects of verification, excluding reduction sites and certification sites, located within the area of application of the Treaty:

(A) during the first 120 days after entry into force of the Treaty, the passive declared site inspection quota shall be equal to 20 percent of a State Party's objects of verification notified pursuant to Section V of the Protocol on Information Exchange;

(B) during each year of the reduction period, after completion of the initial 120-day period, the passive declared site inspection quota shall be equal to 10 percent of a State Party's objects of verification notified pursuant to Section V of the Protocol on Information Exchange;

(C) during the first 120 days after completion of the three-year reduction period, the passive declared site inspection quota shall be equal to 20 percent of a State Party's objects of verification notified pursuant to Section V of the Protocol on Information Exchange; and

(D) each year, commencing after completion of the 120-day residual level validation period, for the duration of the Treaty, the passive declared site inspection quota shall be equal to 15 percent of a State Party's objects of verification notified pursuant to Section V of the Protocol on Information Exchange.

11. Each State Party with territory within the area of application shall be obliged to accept challenge inspections as follows:

(A) during the baseline validation period, during each year of the reduction period and during the residual level validation period, up to 15 percent of the number of inspections of declared sites which that State Party is obliged to receive on its territory of its own objects of verification as well as of objects of verification belonging to stationing States Parties; and

(B) during each year of the residual period, up to 23 percent of the number of inspections of declared sites which that State Party is obliged to receive on its territory of its own objects of verification and of objects of verification belonging to stationing States Parties.

12. Notwithstanding any other limitations in this Section, each State Party shall be obliged to accept a minimum of one inspection each year of its objects of verification pursuant to Section VII of this Protocol, and each State Party with territory within the area of aplication shall be obliged to accept a nimimum of one inspection each year within a specified area pursuant to Section VIII of this Protocol.

13. Inspection pursuant to Section VII of this Protocol of one object of verification at an insepction site shall count as one inspection against the passive declared site inspection quota of that State Party whose object of verification is inspected.

14. The proportion of inspections pursuant to Section VII of this Protocol on the territory of a host State Party within a specified time period used to inspect objects of verification belonging to a stationing State Party shall be no greater than the proportion which that stationing State Party's objects of verification constitute of the total number of objects of verification located on the territory of that host State Party. 

15. The number of inspections pursuant to Section VII of this Protocol of objects of verification within a specified time period on any State Party's territory shall be calculated as a percentage of the total number of objects of verification present on that State Party's territory.

16. Inspection pursuant to Section VIII of this Protocol within one specified area shall count as one inspection against the passive challenge inspection quota and one inspection against the passive declared site inspection quota of the State Party on whose territory the inspection is conducted.

17. Unless otherwise agreed between the escort team and the inspection team, an inspection team's in-country period shall, up to a total of 10 days, not exceed the total number of hours calculated according to the following formula:

(A) 48 hours for the first inspection of an object of verification or within a specified area; plus

(B) 36 hours for each sequential inspection of an object of verification or within a specified area.

18. Subject to the limitations in paragraph 17 of this Section, an inspection team conducting an inspection pursuant to Section VII or VIII of this Protocol shall spend no more than 48 hours at a declared site and no more than 24 hours in inspection within a specified area.

19. The inspected State Party shall ensure that the inspection team travels to a sequential inspection site by the most expeditious means available. If the time between completion of one inspection and arrival of the inspection team at a sequential inspection site exceeds nine hours, or if the time between completion of the last inspection conducted by an inspection team on the territory of the State Party where an inspection is carried out and the arrival of that inspection team at the point of entry/exit exceeds nine hours, such excess time shall not count against that inspection team's in-country period.

20. Each State Party shall be obliged to accept on its territory within the area of application simultaneously no more than either two inspection teams conducting inspections pursuant to Sections VII and VIII of this Protocol or a number of inspection teams conducting inspections pursuant to Sections VII and VIII of this Protocol equal to two percent of the total number of objects of verification that are to be inspected during a specified time period on the territory of that State Party, whichever number is greater.

21. Each State Party shall be obliged to accept simultaneously no more than either two inspection teams conducting inspections of its conventional armed forces pursuant to Section VII or VIII of this Protocol or a number of inspection teams conducting inspections of its conventional armed forces pursuant to Section VII or VIII of this Protocol equal to two percent of the total number of its objects of verification that are to be inspected during a specified time period, whichever number is greater.

22. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 20 and 21 of this Section, each State Party with military districts specified in Articles IV and V of the Treaty shall be obliged to accept on its territory within the area of application simultaneously no more than two inspection teams conducting inspections pursuant to Sections VII and VIII of this Protocol within any one of those military districts.

23. No State Party shall be obliged to accept inspections pursuant to Sections VII and VIII of this Protocol representing more than 50 percent of its passive declared site inspection quota in a calendar year from the same State Party.

24. Each State Party shall have the right to conduct inspections within the area of application on the territory of other States Parties. However, no State Party shall conduct more than five inspections annually pursuant to Sections VII and VIII of this Protocol of another State Party belonging to the same group of States Parties. Any such inspections shall count against the passive declared site inspection quota of the State Party being inspected. It shall otherwise be the responsibility solely of each group of States Parties to determine the allocation of inspections for each State Party within its group of States Parties. Each State Party shall notify to all other States Parties its active inspection quota:

(A) for the baseline validation period, no later than 120 days after signature of the Treaty;

(B) for the first year of the reduction period, no later than 60 days after entry into force of the Treaty; and

(C) for each subsequent year of the reduction period, for the residual level validation period and for each year of the residual period, no later than the 15th day of January preceding each such specified time period.

Section III
PRE-INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS

1. Inspections conducted pursuant to the Treaty shall be carried out by inspectors designated in accordance with paragraphs 3 to 7 of this Section

2. Inspectors shall be nationals of the inspecting State Party or other States Parties.

3. Within 90 days after signature of the Treaty, each State Party shall provide to all other States Parties a list of its proposed inspectors and a list of its proposed transport crew members, containing the full names of inspectors and transport crew members, their gender, date of birth, place of birth and passport number. No list of proposed inspectors provided by a State Party shall contain at any time more than 400 individuals, and no list of proposed transport crew members provided by a State Party shall contain at any time more than 600 individuals.

4. Each State Party shall review the lists of inspectors and transport crew members provided to it by other States Parties and, within 30 days after receipt of each list, shall provide notification to the State Party providing that list of any individual whose name it wishes to be deleted from that list.

5. Subject to paragraph 7 of this Section, inspectors and transport crew members for whom deletion has not been requested within the time interval specified in paragraph 4 of this Section shall be considered as accepted for the purposes of issuing visas and any other documents in accordance with paragraph 8 of this Section.

6. Each State Party shall have the right to amend its lists within one month after entry into force of the Treaty. Thereafter, each State Party may once every six months propose additions to or deletions from its lists of inspectors and transport crew members, provided that such amended lists do not exceed the numbers specified in paragraph 3 of this Section. Proposed additions shall be reviewed in accordance with paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Section.

7. A State Party may request, without right of refusal, deletion of any individual it wishes from lists of inspectors and transport crew members provided by any other State Party.

8. The State Party on whose territory an inspection is conducted shall provide to the inspectors and transport crew members accepted in accordance with paragraph 5 of this Section visas and any other documents as required to ensure that these inspectors and transport crew members may enter and remain in the territory of that State Party for the purpose of carrying out inspection activities in accordance with the provisions of this Protocol. Such visas and any other necessary documents shall be provided either:

(A) within 30 days after the acceptance of the lists or subsequent changes in such lists, in which case the visa shall be valid for a period of no less than 24 months; or

(B) within one hour after the arrival of the inspection team and transport crew members at the point of entry/exit, in which case the visa shall be valid for the duration of their inspection activities.

9. Within 90 days after signature of the Treaty, each State Party shall provide notification to all other States Parties of the standing diplomatic clearance number for the transportation means of that State Party transporting inspectors and equipment necessary for an inspection into and out of the territory of the State Party in which such an inspection is conducted. Routings to and from the designated point(s) of entry/exit shall be along established international airways or other routes that are agreed upon by the States Parties concerned as the basis for such diplomatic clearance. Inspectors may use commercial flights for travel to those points of entry/exit that are served by airlines. The provisions of this paragraph relating to diplomatic clearance numbers shall not apply to such flights.

10. Each State Party shall indicate in the notification provided pursuant to Section V of the Protocol on Information Exchange a point or points of entry/exit in respect of each declared site with its objects of verification. Such points of entry/exit may be ground border crossing points, airports or seaports which must have the capacity to receive the transportation means of the inspecting State Party. At least one airport shall be notified as a point of entry/exit associated with each declared site. The location of any point of entry/exit notified as associated with a declared site shall be such as to allow access to that declared site within the time specified in Section VII, paragraph 8 of this Protocol.

11. Each State Party shall have the right to change the point or points of entry/exit to its territory by notifying all other States Parties no less than 90 days before such a change becomes effective.

12. Within 90 days after signature of the Treaty, each State Party shall provide notification to all other States Parties of the official language or languages of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe to be used by inspection teams conducting inspections of its conventional armed forces.

Section IV
NOTIFICATION OF INTENT TO INSPECT

1. The inspecting State Party shall notify the inspected State Party of its intention to carry out an inspection provided for in Article XIV of the Treaty. In the case of inspection of stationed conventional armed forces, the inspecting State Party shall simultaneously notify the host and stationing States Parties. In the case of inspection of certification or reduction procedures carried out by a stationing State Party, the inspecting State Party shall simultaneously notify the host and stationing States Parties.

2. For inspections conducted pursuant to Sections VII and VIII of this Protocol, such notifications shall be made in accordance with Article XVII of the Treaty no less than 36 hours in advance of the estimated time of arrival of the inspection team at the point of entry/exit on the territory of the State Party where an inspection is to be carried out and shall include:

(A) the point of entry/exit to be used;

(B) the estimated time of arrival at the point of entry/exit;

(C) the means of arrival at the point of entry/exit;

(D) a statement of whether the first inspection shall be conducted pursuant to Section VII or VIII of this Protocol and whether the inspection will be conducted on foot, by cross-country vehicle, by helicopter or by any combination of these;

(E) the time interval between the arrival at the point of entry/exit and the designation of the first inspection site;

(F) the language to be used by the inspection team, which shall be a language designated in accordance with Section III, paragraph 12 of this Protocol;

(G) the language to be used for the inspection report prepared in accordance with Section XII of this Protocol;

(H) the full names of inspectors and transport crew members, their gender, date of birth, place of birth and passport number; and

(I) the likely number of sequential inspections.


3. For inspections conducted pursuant to Sections IX and X of this Protocol, such notifications shall be made in accordance with Article XVII of the Treaty no less than 96 hours in advance of the estimated time of arrival of the inspection team at the designated point of entry/exit on the territory of the State Party where an inspection is to be carried out and shall include:

(A) the point of entry/exit to be used;

(B) the estimated time of arrival at the point of entry/exit;

(C) the means of arrival at the point of entry/exit;

(D) for each inspection at a reduction or certification site, reference to the notification provided pursuant to Section IX, paragraph 3 or Section X, paragraph 5 of this Protocol;

(E) the language to be used by the inspection team, which shall be a language designated in accordance with Section III, paragraph 12 of this Protocol;

(F) the language to be used for the inspection report prepared in accordance with Section XII of this Protocol; and

(G) the full names of inspectors and transport crew members, their gender, date of birth, place of birth and passport number.

4. The States Parties notified pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Section shall acknowledge in accordance with Article XVII of the Treaty receipt of notification within three hours. Subject to the provisions set forth in this Section, the inspection team shall be permitted to arrive at the point of entry/exit at the estimated time of arrival notified pursuant to paragraph 2, subparagraph (B) or paragraph 3, subparagraph (B) of this Section.

5. An inspected State Party receiving a notification of intent to inspect shall immediately upon its receipt send copies of such notification to all other States Parties in accordance with Article XVII of the Treaty.

6. If the State Party on whose territory an inspection is to be carried out is unable to allow the entry of the inspection team at the estimated time of arrival, the inspection team shall be permitted to enter the territory of that State Party within two hours before or after the notified estimated time of arrival. In such a case, the State Party on whose territory an inspection is to be carried out shall notify the inspecting State Party of the new time of arrival no later than 24 hours following the issuance of the original notification.

7. If the inspection team finds itself delayed more than two hours beyond the notified estimated time of arrival or beyond the new time of arrival communicated pursuant to paragraph 6 of this Section, the inspecting State Party shall inform the States Parties notified pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Section of:

(A) a new estimated time of arrival, which in no case shall be more than six hours beyond the initial estimated time of arrival or beyond the new time of arrival communicated pursuant to paragraph a6 of this Section; and

(B) if the inspecting State Party desires, a new time interval between arrival at the point of entry/exit and the designation of the first inspection site.

8. In the event non-commercial flights are used to transport the inspection team to the point of entry/exit, no less than 10 hours before the planned time of entry into the air space of the State Party on whose territory the inspection is to be carried out, the inspecting State Party shall provide that State Party with a flight plan in accordance with Article XVII of the Treaty. The flight plan shall be filed in accordance with the procedures of the International Civil Aviation Organisation applicable to civil aircraft. The inspecting State Party shall include in the remarks section of each flight plan the standing diplomatic clearance number and the notation: "CFE inspection aircraft. Priority clearance processing required." 

9. No more than three hours following the receipt of a flight plan that has been filed in accordance with paragraph 8 of this Section, the State Party on whose territory an inspection is to be carried out shall ensure that the flight plan is approved so that the inspection team may arrive at the point of entry/exit at the estimated time of arrival.

Section V
PROCEDURES UPON ARRIVAL AT POINT OF ENTRY/EXIT

1. The escort team shall meet the inspection team and transport crew members at the point of entry/exit upon their arrival.

2. A State Party which utilises structures or premises by agreement with the inspected State Party will designate a liaison officer to the escort team who will be available as needed at the point of entry/exit to accompany the inspection team at any time as agreed with the escort team.

3. Times of arrival at and return to a point of entry/exit shall be agreed and recorded by both the inspection team and the escort team.

4. The State Party on whose territory an inspection is to be carried out shall ensure that luggage, equipment and supplies of the inspection team are exempt from all customs duties and are expeditiously processed at the point of entry/exit.

5. Equipment and supplies that the inspecting State Party brings into the territory of the State Party where an inspection is to be carried out shall be subject to examination each time they are brought into that territory. This examination shall be completed prior to the departure of the inspection team from the point of entry/exit to the inspection site. Such equipment and supplies shall be examined by the escort team in the presence of the inspection team members.

6. If the escort team determines upon examination that an item of equipment or supplies brought by inspectors is capable of performing functions inconsistent with the inspection requirements of this Protocol or does not meet the requirements set forth in Section VI, paragraph 15 of this Protocol, then the escort team shall have the right to deny permission to use that item and to impound it at the point of entry/exit. The inspecting State Party shall remove such impounded equipment or supplies from the territory of the State Party where an inspection is to be carried out at the earliest opportunity at its own discretion, but no later than the time when the inspection team which brought that impounded equipment or supplies leaves the country.

7. If a State Party has not participated during examination of equipment of an inspection team at the point of entry/exit, that State Party shall be entitled to exercise the rights of the escort team pursuant to paragraphs 5 and 6 of this Section prior to inspection at a declared site at which its conventional armed forces are present or of a structure or premises it utilises by agreement with the inspected State Party.

8. Throughout the period in which the inspection team and transport crew remain on the territory of the State Party where the inspection site is located, the inspected State Party shall provide or arrange for the provision of meals, lodging, work space, transportation and, as necessary, medical care or any other emergency assistance.

9. The State Party on whose territory an inspection is carried out shall provide accommodation, security protection, servicing and fuel for the transportation means of the inspecting State Party at the point of entry/exit.

Section VI
GENERAL RULES FOR CONDUCTING INSPECTIONS

1. An inspection team may include inspectors from States Parties other than the inspecting State Party.

2. For inspections conducted in accordance with Sections VII, VIII, IX and X of this Protocol, an inspection team shall consist of up to nine inspectors and may divide itself into up to three sub-teams. In the case of simultaneous inspections on the territory of States Parties that do not have military districts specified in Articles IV and V of the Treaty or within a single military district of a State Party with such military districts, only one inspection team may divide itself at the inspection site into three sub-teams, the others into two sub-teams.

3. Inspectors and escort team members shall wear some clear identification of their respective roles.

4. An inspector shall be deemed to have assumed his or her duties upon arrival at the point of entry/exit on the territory of the State Party where an inspection is to be carried out and shall be deemed to have ceased performing those duties after leaving the territory of that State Party through the point of entry/exit.

5. The number of transport crew members shall not exceed 10.

6. Without prejudice to their privileges and immunities, inspectors and transport crew members shall respect the laws and regulations of the State Party on whose territory an inspection is carried out and shall not interfere in the internal affairs of that State Party. Inspectors and transport crew members shall also respect regulations at an inspection site, including safety and administrative procedures. In the event that the inspected State Party determines that an inspector or transport crew member has violated such laws and regulations or other conditions governing the inspection activities set forth in this Protocol, it shall so notify the inspecting State Party, which upon the request of the inspected State Party shall immediately delete the name of the inidividual from the list of inspectors or transport crew members. If the individual is on the territory of the State Party where an inspection is carried out, the inspecting State Party shall promptly remove that individual from that territory.

7. The inspected State Party shall be responsible for ensuring the safety of the inspection team and transport crew members from the time they arrive at the point of entry/exit until the time they leave the point of entry/exit to depart the territory of that State Party.

8. The escort team shall assist the inspection team in carrying out its functions. At its discretion, the escort team may exercise its right to accompany the inspection team from the time it enters the territory of the State Party where an inspection is to be carried out until the time it departs that territory.

9. The inspecting State Party shall ensure that the inspection team and each sub-team have the necessary linguistic ability to communicate freely with the escort team in the language notified in accordance with Section IV, paragraph 2, subparagraph (F) and paragraph 3, subparagraph (E) of this Protocol. The inspected State Party shall ensure that the escort team has the necessary linguistic ability to communicate freely in this language with the inspection team and each sub-team. Inspectors and members of the escort team may also communicate in other languages.

10. No information obtained during inspections shall be publicly disclosed without the express consent of the inspecting State Party.

11. Throughout their presence on the territory of the State Party where an inspection is to be carried out, inspectors shall have the right to communicate with the embassy or consulate of the inspecting State Party located on that territory, using appropriate telecommunications means provided by the inspected State Party. The inspected State Party shall also provide means of communication between the sub-teams of an inspection team.

12. The inspected State Party shall transport the inspection team to, from and between inspection sites by a means and route selected by the inspected State Party. The inspecting State Party may request a variation in the selected route. The inspected State Party shall if possible grant such a request. Whenever mutually agreed, the inspecting State Party will be permitted to use its own land vehicles.

13. If an emergency arises that necessitates travel of inspectors from an inspection site to a point of entry/exit or to the embassy or consulate of the inspecting State Party on the territory of the State Party where an inspection is carried out, the inspection team shall so notify the escort team, which shall promptly arrange such travel, and if necessary, shall provide appropriate means of transportation.

14. The inspected State Party shall provide for use by the inspection team at the inspection site an administrative area for storage of equipment and supplies, report writing, rest breaks and meals.

15. The inspection team shall be permitted to bring such documents as needed to conduct the inspection, in particular its own maps and charts. Inspectors shall be permitted to bring and use portable passive night vision devices, binoculars, video and still cameras, dictaphones, tape measures, flashlights, magnetic compasses and lap-top computers. The inspectors shall be permitted to use other equipment, subject to the approval of the inspected State Party. Throughout the in-country period, the escort team shall have the right to observe the equipment brought by inspectors, but shall not interfere with the use of equipment that has been approved by the escort team in accordance with Section V, pargraphs 5 to 7 of this Protocol.

16. In the case of an inspection conducted pursuant to Section VII or VIII of this Protocol, the inspection team shall specify on each occasion it designates the inspection site to be inspected whether the inspection will be conducted on foot, by cross-country vehicle, by helicopter or by any combination of these. Unless otherwise agreed, the inspected State Party shall provide and operate the appropriate cross-country vehicles at the inspection site.

17. Whenever possible, subject to the safety requirements and flight regulations of the inspected State Party and subject to the provisions of paragraphs 18 to 21 of this Section, the inspection team shall have the right to conduct helicopter overflights of the inspection site, using a helicopter provided and operated by the inspected State Party, during inspections conducted pursuant to Sections VII and VIII of this Protocol.

18. The inspected State Party shall not be obliged to provide a helicopter at any inspection site that is less than 20 square kilometres in area. 

19. The inspected State Party shall have the right to delay, limit or refuse helicopter overflights above sensitive points, but the presence of sensitive points shall not prevent helicopter overflight of the remaining areas of the inspection site. Photography of or above sensitive points during helicopter overflights shall be permitted only with the approval of the escort team.

20. The duration of such helicopter overflights at an inspection site shall not exceed a cumulative total of one hour, unless otherwise agreed between the inspection team and the escort team.

21. Any helicopter provided by the inspected State Party shall be large enough to carry at least two members of the inspection team and at least one member of the escort team. Inspectors shall be allowed to take and use on overflights of the inspection site any of the equipment specified in paragraph 15 of this Section. The inspection team shall advise the escort team during inspection flights whenever it intends to take photographs. A helicopter shall afford the inspectors a constant and unobstructed view of the ground.

22. In discharging their functions, inspectors shall not interfere directly with ongoing activities at the inspection site and shall avoid unnecessarily hampering or delaying operations at the inspection site or taking actions affecting safe operation.

23. Except as provided for in paragraphs 24 to 29 of this Section, during an inspection of an object of verification or within a specific area, inspectors shall be permitted access, entry and unobstructed inspection:

(A) in the case of a specified area, within the entire specified area; or

(B) in the case of an object of verification, within the entire territory of the declared site except within those areas delineated on the site diagram as belonging exclusively to another object of verification which the inspection team has not designated for inspection.

24. During an inspection of an object of verification or within a specified area pursuant to Section VII or VIII of this Protocol and subject to the provisions of paragraph 25 of this Section, inspectors shall have the right, within the areas cited in paragraph 23 of this Section, to enter any location, structure or area within a structure in which battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat helicopters, combat aircraft, reclassified combat-capable trainer aircraft, armoured personnel carrier look-alikes, armoured infantry fighting vehicle look-alikes or armoured vehicle launched bridges are permanently or routinely present. Inspectors shall not have the right to enter other structures or areas within structures the entry points to which are physically accessible only by personnel doors not exceeding two metres in width and to which access is denied by the escort team.

25. During an inspection of an object of verification or within a specified area pursuant to Section VII or VIII of this Protocol, inspectors shall have the right to look into a hardened aircraft shelter to confirm visually whether any battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat helicopters, combat aircraft, reclassified combat-capable trainer aircraft, armoured personnel carrier look-alikes, armoured infantry fighting vehicle look-alikes or armoured vehicle launched bridges are present and, if so, their number and type, model or version. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 24 of this Section, inspectors shall enter the interior of such hardened aircraft shelters only with the approval of the escort team. If such approval is denied and if the inspectors so request, any battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat helicopters, combat aircraft, reclassified combat-capable trainer aircraft, armoured personnel carrier look-alikes, armoured infantry fighting vehicle look-alikes or armoured vehicle launched bridges in such hardened aircraft shelters shall be displayed outside. 

26. During an inspection of an object of verification or within a specified area pursuant to Section VII or VIII of this Protocol, except as provided in paragraphs 27 to 33 of this Section, inspectors shall have the right to have access to conventional armaments and equipment only in so far as is necessary to confirm visually their number and type, model or version.

27. The inspected State Party shall have the right to shroud individual sensitive items of equipment.

28. The escort team shall have the right to deny access to sensitive points, the number and extent of which should be as limited as possible, to shrouded objects and to containers any dimension (width, height, length or diameter) of which is less than two metres. Whenever a sensitive point is designated, or shrouded objects or containers are present, the escort team shall declare whether the sensitive point, shrouded object or container holds any battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat helicopters, combat aircraft, reclassified combat-capable trainer aircraft, armoured personnel carrier look-alikes, armoured infantry fighting vehicle look-alikes or armoured vehicle launched bridges and, if so, their number and type, model or version.

29. If the escort team declares that a sensitive point, shrouded object or container does contain any of the conventional armaments and equipment specified in paragraph 28 of this Section, then the escort team shall display or declare such conventional armaments and equipment to the inspection team and shall take steps to satisfy the inspection team that no more than the declared number of such conventional armaments and equipment are present.

30. If, during an inspection of an object of verification or within a specified area pursuant to Section VII or VIII of this Protocol, a helicopter of a type that is or has been on the multi-purpose attack helicopter list in the Protocol on Existing Types is present at an inspection site and is declared by the escort team to be a combat support helicopter, or if an Mi-24R or Mi-24K helicopter is present at an inspection site and is declared by the escort team to be limited pursuant to Section I, paragraph 3 of the Protocol on Helicopter Recategorisation, such a helicopter shall be subject to internal inspection in accordance with Section IX, paragraph 4 to 6 of this Protocol.

31. If, during an inspection of an object of verification or within a specified area pursuant to Section VII or VIII of this Protocol, an aircraft of a specific model or version of combat-capable trainer aircraft listed in Section II of the Protocol on Aircraft Reclassification is present at an inspection site and is declared by the escort team to have been certified an unarmed in accordance with the Protocol on Aircraft Reclassification, such an aircraft shall be subject to internal inspection in accordance with Section IX, paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Protocol.

32. If, during an inspection of an object of verification or within a specified area pursuant to Section VII or VIII of this Protocol, an armoured vehicle declared by the escort team to be an armoured personnel carrier look-alike or an armoured infantry fighting vehicle look-alike is present at an inspection site, the inspection team shall have the right to determine that such vehicle cannot permit the transport of a combat infantry squad. Inspectors shall have the right to require the doors and/or hatches of the vehicle to be opened so that the interior can be visually inspected from outside the vehicle. Sensitive equipment in or on the vehicle may be shrouded.

33. If, during an inspection of an object of verification or within a specified area pursuant to Section VII or VIII of this Protocol, items of equipment declared by the escort team to have been reduced in accordance with the provisions in the Protocol on Reduction are present at an inspection site, the inspection team shall have the right to inspect such items of equipment to confirm that they have been reduced in accordance with the procedures specified in Sections III to XII of the Protocol on Reduction.

34. Inspectors shall have the right to take photographs, including video, for the purpose of recording the presence of conventional armaments and equipment subject to the Treaty, including within designated permanent storage sites, or other storage sites containing more than 50 such conventional armaments and equipment. Still camera

s shall be limited to 35mm cameras and to cameras capable of producing instantly developed photographic prints. The inspection team shall advise the escort team in advance whether it plans to take photographs. The escort team shall cooperate with the inspection team's taking of photographs.

33. If, during an inspection of an object of verification or within a specified area pursuant to Section VII or VIII of this Protocol, items of equipment declared by the inspection team to have been reduced in accordance with the provisions in the Protocol on Reduction are present at an inspection site, the inspection team shall have the right to inspect such items of equipment to confirm that they have been reduced in accordance with the procedures specified in Sections III to XII of the Protocol on Reduction.

34. Inspectors shall have the right to take photographs, including video, for the purpose of recording the presence of conventional armaments and equipment subject to the Treaty, including within designated permanent storage sites, or other storage sites containing more than 50 such conventional armaments and equipment. Still cameras shall be limited to 35mm cameras and to cameras capable of producing instantly developed photographic prints. The inspection team shall advise the escort team in advance whether it plans to take photographs. The escort team shall cooperate with the inspection team's taking of photographs.

35. Photography of sensitive points shall be permitted only with the approval of the escort team.

36. Except as provided for in paragraph 38 of this Section, photography of interiors of structures other than storage sites specified in paragraph 34 of this Section shall be permitted only with the approval of the escort team.

37. Inspectors shall have the right to take measurements to resolve ambiguities that might arise during inspections. Such measurements recorded during inspections shall be confirmed by a member of the inspection team and a member of the escort team immediately after they are taken. Such confirmed data shall be included in the inspection report.

38. States Parties shall, whenever possible, resolve during an inspection any ambiguities that arise regarding factual information. Whenever inspectors request the escort team to clarify such an ambiguity, the escort team shall promptly provide the inspection team with clarifications. If inspectors decide to document an unresolved ambiguity with photographs, the escort team shall, subject to the provision in paragraph 35 of this Section, cooperate with the inspection team's taking of appropriate photographs using a camera capable of producing instantly developed photographic prints. If an ambiguity cannot be resolved during the inspection, then the question, relevant clarifications and any pertinent photographs shall be included in the inspection report in accordance with Section XII of this Protocol.

39. For inspections conducted pursuant to Sections VII and VIII of this Protocol, the inspection shall be deemed to have been completed once the inspection report has been signed and countersigned.

40. No later than completion of an inspection at a declared site or within a specified area, the inspection team shall inform the escort team whether the inspection team intends to conduct a sequential inspection. If the inspection team intends to conduct a sequential inspection, the inspection team shall designate at that time the next inspection site. In such cases, subject to the provisions in Section VII, paragraphs 6 and 17 and Section VIII, paragraph 6, subparagraph (A) of this Protocol, the inspected State Party shall ensure that the inspection team arrives at the sequential inspection site as soon as possible after completion of the previous inspection. If the inspection team does not intend to conduct a sequential inspection, the provisions in paragraphs 42 and 43 of this Section shall apply.

41. An inspection team shall have the right to conduct sequential inspection, subject to the provisions of Sections VII and VIII of this Protocol, on the territory of the State Party on which that inspection team has conducted the preceding inspection:

(A) at any declared site associated with the same point of entry/exit as the preceding inspection site or the same point of entry/exit at which the inspection team arrived; or 

(B) within any specified area for which the point of entry/exit at which the inspection team arrived is the nearest point of entry/exit notified pursuant to Section V of the Protocol on Information Exchange; or

(C) at any location within 200 kilometres of the preceding inspection site within the same military district; or

(D) at the location which the inspected State Party claims, pursuant to Section VII, paragraph 11, subparagraph (A) of this Protocol, is the temporary location of battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat helicopters, combat aircraft or armoured vehicle launched bridges which were absent during inspection of an object of verification at the preceding inspection site, if such conventional armaments and equipment constitute more than 15 percent of the number of such conventional armaments and equipment notified in the most recent notification pursuant to the Protocol on Information Exchange; or

(E) at the declared site which the inspected State Party claims, pursuant to Section VII, paragraph 11, subparagraph (B) of this Protocol, is the site of origin for battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat helicopters, combat aircraft or armoured vehicle launched bridges at the preceding inspection site which are in excess of the number provided in the most recent notification pursuant to the Protocol on Information Exchange as being present at that preceding inspection site, if such conventional armaments and equipment exceed by 15 percent the number of such conventional armaments and equipment so notified.

42. After completion of an inspection at a declared site or within a specified area, if no sequential inspection has been declared, then the inspection team shall be transported to the appropriate point of entry/exit as soon as possible and shall depart the territory of the State Party where the inspection was carried out within 24 hours.

43. The inspection team shall leave the territory of the State Party where it has been conducting inspections from the same point of entry/exit at which it entered, unless otherwise agreed. If an inspection team chooses to proceed to a point of entry/exit on the territory of another State Party for the purpose of conducting inspections, it shall have the right to do so provided that the inspecting State Party has provided the necessary notification in accordance with Section IV, paragraph 1 of this Protocol.

Section VII
DECLARED SITE INSPECTION

1. Inspection of a declared site pursuant to this Protocol shall not be refused. Such inspections may be delayed only in cases of force majeure or in accordance with Section II, paragraphs 7 and 20 to 22 of this Protocol.

2. Except as provided for in paragraph 3 of this Section, an inspection team shall arrive on the territory of the State Party where an inspection is to be carried out through a point of entry/exit associated under Section V of the Protocol on Information Exchange with the declared site it plans to designate as the first inspection site pursuant to paragraph 7 of this Section.

3. If an inspecting State Party desires to use a ground border crossing point or seaport as a point of entry/exit and the inspected State Party has not previously notified a ground border crossing point or seaport as a point of entry/exit pursuant to Section V of the Protocol on Information Exchange as associated with the declared site the inspecting State Party desires to designate as the first inspection site pursuant to paragraph 7 of this Section, the inspecting State Party shall indicate in the notification provided pursuant to Section IV, paragraph 2 of this Protocol the desired ground border crossing point or seaport as point of entry/exit. The inspected State Party shall indicate in its acknowledgement of receipt of notification, as provided for in Section IV, paragraph 4 of this Protocol, whether this point of entry/exit is acceptable or not. In the latter case, the inspected State Party shall notify the inspecting State Party of another point of entry/exit which shall be as near as possible to the desired point of entry/exit and which may be an airport notified pursuant to Section V of the Protocol on Information Exchange, a seaport or a ground border crossing point through which the inspection team and transport crew members may arrive on its territory.

4. If an inspecting State Party notifies its desire to use a ground border crossing point or seaport as a point of entry/exit pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Section, it shall determine prior to such notification that there is reasonable certainty that its inspection team can reach the first declared site where that State Party desires to carry out an inspection within the time specified in paragraph 8 of this Section using ground transportation means.

5. If an inspection team and transport crew arrive pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Section on the territory of the State Party on which an inspection is to be caried out through a point of entry/exit other than a point of entry/exit that was notified pursuant to Section V of the Protocol on Information Exchange as being associated with the declared site it desires to designate as the first inspection site, the inspected State Party shall facilitate access to this declared site as expeditiously as possible, but shall be permitted to exceed, if necessary, the time limit specified in paragraph 8 of this Section.

6. The inspected State Party shall have the right to utilise up to six hours after designation of a declared site to prepare for the arrival of the inspection team at that site.

7. At the number of hours after arrival at the point of entry/exit notified pursuant to Section IV, paragraph 2, subparagraph (E) of this Protocol, which shall be no less than one hour and no more than 16 hours after arrival at the point of entry/exit, the inspection team shall designate the first declared site to be inspected.

8. The inspected State Party shall ensure that the inspection team travels to the first declared site by the most expeditious means available and arrives as soon as possible but no later than nine hours after the designation of the site to be inspected, unless otherwise agreed between the inspection team and the escort team, or unless the inspection site is located in mountainous terrain or terrain to which access is difficult. In such case, the inspection team shall be transported to the inspection site no later than 15 hours after designation of that inspection site. Travel time in excess of nine hours shall not count against that inspection team's in-country period.

9. Immediately upon arrival at the declared site, the inspection team shall be escorted to a briefing facility where it shall be provided with a diagram of the declared site, unless such a diagram has been provided in a previous exchange of site diagrams. The declared site diagram, provided upon arrival at the declared site, shall contain an accurate depiction of the:

(A) geographic coordinates of a point within the inspection site, to the nearest 10 seconds, with indication of that point and of true north;

(B) scale used in the site diagram;

(C) perimeter of the declared site;

(D) precisely delineated boundaries of those areas belonging exclusively to each object of verification, indicating the formation or unit record number of each object of verification to which each such area belongs and including those separately located areas where battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artiller, combat aircraft, combat helicopters, reclassified combat-capable trainer aircraft, armoured personnel carrier look-alikes, armoured infantry fighting vehicle look-alikes or armoured vehicle launched bridges belonging to each object of verification are permanently assigned;

(E) major buildings and roads on the declared site;

(F) entrances to the declared site; and

(G) location of an administrative area for the inspection team provided in accordance with Section VI, paragraph 14 of this Protocol.

10. Within one-half hour after receiving the diagram of the declared site, the inspection team shall designate the object of verification to be inspect. The inspection team shall then be given a pre-inspection briefing which shall last no more than one hour and shall include the following elements:

(A) safety and administrative procedures at the inspection site;

(B) modalities of transportation and communication for inspectors at the inspection site; and

(C) holdings and locations at the inspection site, including within the common areas of the declared site, of battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft, combat helicopters, reclassified combat-capable trainer aircraft, armoured personnel carrier look-alikes, armoured infantry fighting vehicle look-alikes and armoured vehicle launched bridges, including those belonging to separately located subordinate elements belonging to the same object of verification to be inspected.

11. The pre-inspection briefing shall include an explanation of any differences between the numbers of battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft, combat helicopters or armoured vehicle launched bridges present at the inspection site and the corresponding numbers provided in the most recent notification pursuant to the Protocol on Information Exchange, in accordance with the following provisions:

(A) if the numbers of such conventional armaments and equipment present at the inspection site are less than the numbers provided in that most recent notification, such explanation shall include the temporary location of such conventional armaments and equipment; and

(B) if the numbers of such armaments and equipment present at the inspection site exceed the numbers provided in that most recent notification, such explanation shall include specific information on the origin, departure times from origin, time of arrival and projected stay at the inspection site of such additional conventional armaments and equipment.

12. When an inspection team designates an object of verification to be inspected, the inspection team shall have the right, as part of the same inspection of that object of verification, to inspect all territory delineated on the site diagram as belonging to that object of verification, including those separately located areas on the territory of the same State Party where conventional armaments and equipment belonging to that object of verification are permanently assigned.

13. The inspection of one object of verification at a declared site shall permit the inspection team access, entry and unobstructed inspection within the entire territory of the declared site except within those areas delineated on the site diagram as belonging exclusively to another object of verification which the inspection team has not designated for inspection. During such inspections, the provisions of Section VI of this Protocol shall apply.

14. If the escort team informs the inspection team that battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat helicopters, combat aircraft, reclassified combat-capable trainer aircraft, armoured personnel carrier look-alikes, armoured infantry fighting vehicle look-alikes or armoured vehicle launched bridges that have been notified as being held by one object of verification at a declared site are present within an area delineated on the site diagram as belonging exclusively to another object of verification, then the escort team shall ensure that the inspection team, as part of the same inspection, has access to such conventional armaments and equipment. 

15. If conventioanl armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty or armoured vehicle launched bridges are present wihtin areas of a declared site not delineated on the site diagram as belonging exclusively to one object of verification, the escort team shall inform the inspection team to which object of verification such conventional armaments and equipment belong.

16. Each State Party shall be oblited to account for the aggregate total of any category of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty notified pursuant to Section III of the Protocol on Information Exchange, at the organisational level above brigade/regiment or equivalent, if such an accounting is requested by another State Party.

17. If, during an inspection at a declared site, the inspection team decides to conduct at the same declared site an inspection of an object of verification that had not been previously designated, the inspection team shall have the right to commence such inspection witin three hours of that designation. In such case, the inspection team shall be given a briefing on the object of verification designated for the next inspection in accordance with paragraphs 10 and 11 of this Section.

Section VIII
CHALLENGE INSPECTION WITHIN SPECIFIED AREAS

1. Each State Party shall have the right to conduct challenge inspections within specified areas in accordance with this Protocol.

2. If the inspecting State Party intends to conduct a challenge inspection witin a specified areas as the first inspection aftere arrival at a point of entry/exit:

(A) it shall include in its notificaiton pursuant to Section IV of this Protocol the designated point of entry/exit nearest to or within that specified area capable of receiving the inspecting State Party's chosen means of transportation; and

(B) at the number of hours after arrival at the point of entry/exit notified pursuant to Section IV, paragraph 2, subparagraph (E) of this Protocol, which shall be no less than one hour and no more than 16 hours after arrival at the point of entry/exit, the inspection team shall designate the first specified area it wishes to inspect. Whenever a specified area is designated, the inspection team shall, as part of its inspection request, provide to the escort team a geographic description delineating the outer boundaries of that area. The inspection team shall have the right, as part of that request, to identify any structure or facility it wishes to inspect. 

3. The Sate Party on whose territory a challenge inspection is requested shall, immediately upon receiving a designation of a specified area, inform other States Parties which utilise structures or premises by agreement with the inspected State Party of that specified area, including its geographic description delineating the outer boundaries.

4. The inspected State Party shall have the right to refuse challenge inspections witin specified areas.

5. The inspected State Party shall inform the inspection team within two hours after the designation of a specified area whether the inspection request will be granted.

6. If access to a specified area is granted:

(A) the inspected State Party shall have the right to use up to six hours after it accepts the inspection to prepare for the arrival of the inspection team at the specified area;

(B) the inspected State Party shall ensure that the inspection team travels to the first specified area by the most expeditious means available and arrives as soon as possible after the designation of the site to be inspected, but no later than nine hours from the time such an inspection is accepted, unless otherwise agreed between the inspection team and the escort team, or unless the inspection site is located in mountainous terrain or terrain to which access is difficult. In such case, the inspection team shall be transported to the inspection site no later than 15 hours after such an inspection is accepted. Travel time in excess of nine hours shall not count against that inspection team's in-country period; and

(C) the provisions of Section VI of this Protocol shall apply. Within such specified area the escort team may delay access to or overflight of particular parts of that specified area. If the delay exceeds more than four hours, the inspection team shall have the right to cancel the inspection. The period of delay shall not count against the in-country period or the maximum time allowed within a specified area.

7. If an inspection team requests access to a structure or premises which another State Party utilises by agreement with the inspected State Party, the inspected State Party shall immediately inform the inspection team that the other State Party, by agreement with the inspected State Party, shall, in cooperation with the inspected State Party and to the extent consistent with the agreement on utilisation, exercise the rights and obligations set forth in this Protocol with respect to inspections involving equipment or materiel of the State Party utilising the structure or premises. 

8. If the inspected State Party so wishes, the inspection team may be briefed on arrival at the specified rea. This briefing is to last no more than one hour. Safety procedures and administrative arrangements may also be covered in this briefing.

9. If access to a specified area is denied:

(A) the inspected State Party or the State Party exercising the rights and obligations of the inspected State Party shall provide all reasonable assurance that the specified area does not contain conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty. If such armaments and equipment are present and assigned to organisations designed and structured to perform in peacetime international security functions in the area defined in Article V of the Treaty, the inspected State Party or the State Party exercising the rights and obligations of the inspected State Party shall allow visual confirmation of their presence, unless precluded from so doing by force majeure, in which case visual confirmation shall be allowed as soon as practicable; and

(B) no inspection quota shall be counted, and the time between the designation of the specified area and its subsequent refusal shall not count against the in-country period. The inspection team shall have the right to designate another specifed area or declared site for inspection or to declare the inspection concluded.

Section X
INSPECTION OF CERTIFICATION

1. Each State Party shall have the right to inspect, without right of refusal, the certification of recategorised multi-purpose attack helicopters and reclassified combat-capable trainer aircraft in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Protocol on Helicopter Recategorisation and the Protocol on Aircraft Reclassification. Such inspections shall not count against the quotas established in Section II of this Protocol. Inspection teams conducting such inspections may be composed of representatives of different States Parties. The inspected State Party shall not be obliged to accept more than one inspection team at a time at each certification site.

2. In conducting an inspection of certification in accordance with this Section, an inspection team shall have the right to spend up to two days at a certification site, unless otherwise agreed.

3. No less than 15 days before the certification of recategorised multi-purpose attack helicopters or reclassified combat-capable trainer aircraft, the State Party conducting the certification shall provide to all other States Parties notification of:

(A) the site at which the certification is to take place, including geographic coordinates;

(B) the scheduled dates of the certification process;

(C) the estimated number and type, model or version of helicopters or aircraft to be certified;

(D) the manufacturer's serial number for each helicopter or aircraft;

(E) the unit or location to which the helicopters or aircraft were previously assigned;

(F) the unit or location to which the certified helicopters or aircraft will be assigned in the future;

(G) the point of entry/exit to be used by an inspection team; and

(H) the date and time by which an inspection team shall arrive at the point of entry/exit in order to inspect the certification.

4. Inspectors shall have the right to enter and inspect visually the helicopter or aircraft cockpit and interior to include checking the manufacturer's serial number, without right of refusal on the part of the State Party conducting the certification.

5. If requested by the inspection team, the escort team shall remove, without right of refusal, any access panels covering the position from which components and wiring were removed in accordance with the provisions of the Protocol on Helicopter Recategorisation or the Protocol on Aircraft Reclassification.

6. Inspectors shall have the right to request and observe, with the right of refusal on the part of the State Party conducting the certification, the activation of any weapon system component in multi-purpose attack helicopters being certified or declared to have been recategorised.

7. At the conclusion of each inspection of certification, the inspection team shall complete an inspection report in accordance with the provisions of Section XII of this Protocol.

8. Upon completion of an inspection at a certification site, the inspection team shall have the right to depart the territory of the inspected State Party or to conduct a sequential inspection at another certification site or at a reduction site if the appropriate notification has been provided by the inspection team in accordance with Section IV, paragraph 3 of this Protocol. The inspection team shall notify the escort team of its intended departure from the certification site and, if appropriate, of its intention to proceed to another certification site or to a reduction site at least 24 hours before the intended departure time.

9. Within seven days after completion of the certification, the State Party responsible for the certification shall notify all other States Parties of the completion of the certification. Such notification shall specify the number, types, models or versions and manufacturer's serial numbers of certified helicopters or aircraft, the certification site involved, the actual dates of the certification, and the units or locations to which the recategorised helicopters or reclassified aircraft will be assigned.

Section X
INSPECTION OF REDUCTION

1. Each State Party shall have the right to conduct inspections, without the right of refusal by the inspected State Party, of the process of reduction carried out pursuant to Sections I to VIII and X to XII of the Protocol on Reduction in accordance with the provisions of this Section. Such inspections shall not count against the quotas established in Section II of this Protocol. Inspection teams conducting the inspections may be composed of representatives of different States Parties. The inspected State Party shall not be obliged to accept more than one inspection team at a time at each reduction site.

2. The inspected State Party shall have the right to organise and implement the process of reduction subject only to the provisions set forth in Article VIII of the Treaty and in the Protocol on Reduction. Inspections of the process of reduction shall be conducted in a manner that does not interfere with the ongoing activities at the reduction site or unnecessarily hamper, delay or complicate the implementation of the process of reduction.

3. If a reduction site notified pursuant to Section III of the Protocol on Information Exchange is used by more than one State Party, inspections of the reduction process shall be conducted in accordance with schedules of such use provided by each State Party using the reduction site.

4. Each State Party that intends to reduce conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty shall notify all other States Parties which conventional armaments and equipment are to be reduced at each reduction site during a calendar reporting period. Each such calendar reporting period shall have a duration of no more than 90 days and no less than 30 days. This provision shall apply whenever reduction is carried out at a reduction site, without regard to whether the reduction process is to be carried out on a continuous or intermittent basis.

5. No less than 15 days before the initiation of reduction for a calendar reporting period, the State Party intending to implement reduction procedures shall provide to all other Staates Parties the calendar reporting period notificaiton. Such notification shall include the designation of the reduction site with geographic coordinates, the scheduled date for iinitiation of reduction and the scheduled date for completion of the reduction of conventional armaments and equipment identified for reduction during the calendar reporting period. In addition, the notification shall identify:

(A) the estimated number and type of conventional armaments and equipment to be reduced;

(B) the object or objects of verification from which the items to be reduced have been withdrawn;

(C) the reduction procedures to be used, pursuant to Sections III to VIII and Sections X to XII of the Protocol on Reduction, for each type of conventional armaments and equipment to be reduced;

(D) the point of entry/exit to be used by an inspection team conducting an inspection of reduction notified for that calendar reporting period; and

(E) the date and tiime by which an inspection team must arrive at the point of entry/exit in order to inspect the conventional armaments and equipment before the initiation of their reduction.

6. Except as specified in paragraph 11 of this Section, an inspection team shall have the right to arrive at or depart from a reduction site at any time during the calendar reporting period, including three days beyond the end of a notified calendar reporting period. In addition, the inspection team shall have the right to remain at the reduction site throughout one or more calendar reporting periods provided that these periods are not separated by more than three days. Throughout the period that the inspection team remains at the reduction site, it shall have the right to observe all the reduction procedures carried out in accordance with the Protocol on Reduction.

7. In accordance with the provisions set forth in this Section, the inspection team shall have the right to freely record factory serial numbers from the conventional armaments and equipment to be reduced or to place special marks on such equipment before reduction and to record subsequently such numbers or marks at the completion of the reduction process. Parts and elements of reduced conventional armaments and equipment as specified in Section II, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Protocol on Reduction or, in the case of conversion, the vehicles converted for non-military purposes shall be available for inspection for at least three days after the end of the notified calendar reporting period, unless inspection of those reduced elements has been completed earlier. 

8. The State Party engaged in the process of reducing conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty shall establish at each reduction site a working register in which it shall record the factory serial numbers of each item undergoing reduction as well as the dates on which the reduction procedures were initiated and completed. This register shall also include aggregate data for each calendar reporting period. The register shall be made available to the inspection team for the period of inspection.

9. At the conclusion of each inspection of the reduction process, the inspection team shall complete a standardised report which shall be signed by the inspection team leader and a representative of the inspected State Party. The provisions of Section XII of this Protocol shall apply.

10. Upon completion of an inspection at a reduction site, the inspection team shall have the right to depart the territory of the inspected State Party or to conduct a sequential inspection at another reduction site or at a certification site if the appropriate notification has been provided in accordance with Section IV, paragraph 3 of this Protocol. The inspection team shall notify the escort team of its intended departure from the reduction site and, if appropriate, of its intention to proceed to another reduction site or to a certification site at least 24 hours before the intended departure time.

11. Each State Party shall be obliged to accept up to 10 inspections each year to validate the completion of conversion of conventional armaments and equipment into vehicles for non-military purposes pursuant to Section VIII of the Protocol on Reduction. Such inspections shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this Section with the following exceptions:

(A) the notification pursuant to paragraph 5, subparagraph (E) of this Section shall identify only the date and time by which an inspection team must arrive at the point of entry/exit in order to inspect the items of equipment at the completion of their conversion into vehicles for non-military purposes; and

(B) the inspection team shall have the right to arrive at or depart from the reduction site only during the three days beyond the end of the notified completion date of conversion.

12. Within seven days after the completion of the process of reduction for a calendar reporting period, the State Party responsible for reductions shall notify all other States Parties of the completion of reduction for that period. Such notification shall specify the number and types of conventional armaments and equipment reduced, the reduction site involved, the reduction procedures employed and the actual dates of the initiation and completion of the reduction process for that calendar reporting period. For conventional armaments and equipment reduced pursuant to Sections X, XI and XII of the Protocol on Reduction, the notification shall also specify the location at which such conventional armaments and equipment will be permanently located. For conventional armaments and equipment reduced pursuant to Section VIII of the Protocol on Reduction, the notification shall specify the reduction site at which final conversion will be carried out or the storage site to which each item designated for conversion will be transferred. 

Section XI
CANCELLATION OF INSPECTIONS

1. If an inspection team finds itself unable to arrive at the point of entry/exit within six hours after the initial estimated time of arrival or after the new time of arrival communicated pursuant to Section IV, paragraph 6 of this Protocol, the inspecting State Party shall so inform the States Parties notified pursuant to Section IV, paragraph 1 of this Protocol. In such a case, the notification of intent to inspect shall lapse and the inspection shall be cancelled.

2. In the case of delay, due to circumstances beyond the control of the inspecting State Party, occurring after the inspection team has arrived at the point of entry/exit and which has prevented the inspection team from arriving at the first designated inspection site within the time specified in Section VII, paragraph 8 or Section VIII, paragraph 6, subparagraph (B) of this Protocol, the inspecting State Party shall have the right to cancel the inspection. If an inspection is cancelled under such circumstances, it shall not be counted against any quotas provided for in the Treaty.

Section XII
INSPECTION REPORTS

1. In order to complete an inspection carried out in accordance with Section VII, VIII, IX or X of this Protocol, and before leaving the inspection site:

(A) the inspection team shall provide the escort team with a written report; and

(B) the escort team shall have the right to include its written comments in the inspection report and shall countersign the report within one hour afer having received the report from the inspection team, unless an extension has been agreed between the inspection team and the escort team.

2. The report shall be signed by the inspection team leader and receipt acknowledged in writing by the leader of the escort team.

3. The report shall be factual and standardised. Formats for each type of inspection shall be agreed by the Joint Consultative Group prior to entry into force of the Treaty, taking into account paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Section.

4. Reports of inspections conducted pursuant to Sections VII and VIII of this Protocol shall include:

(A) the inspection site;

(B) the date and time of arrival of the inspection team at the inspection site;

(C) the date and time of departure of the inspection team from the inspection site; and

(D) the number and type, model or version of any battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft, combat helicopters, reclassified combat-capable trainer aircraft, armoured personnel carrier look-alikes, armoured infantry fighting vehicle look-alikes or armoured vehicle launched bridges that were observed during the inspection, including, if appropriate, an indication of the ogject of verification to which they belonged.

5. Reports of inspections conducted pursuant to Sections IX and X of this Protocol shall include:

(A) the reduction or certification site at which the reduction or certification procedures were carried out;

(B) the dates the inspection team was present at the site;

(C) the number and type, model or version of conventional armaments and equipment for which the reduction or certification procedures were observed;

(D) list of any serial numbers recorded during the inspections;

(E) in the case of reductions, the particular reduction procedures applied or observed; and

(F) in the case of reductions, if an inspection team was present at the reduction site throughout the calendar reporting period, the actual dates on which the reduction procedures were initiated and completed.

6. The inspection report shall be written in the official language of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe designated by the inspecting State Party in accordance with Section IV, paragraph 2, subparagraph (G) or paragraph 3, subparagraph (F) of this Protocol.

7. The inspecting State Party and the inspected State Party shall each retain one copy of the report. At the discretion of either State Party, the inspection report may be forwarded to the States Parties and, as a rule, made available to the Joint Consultative Group. 

8. The stationing State Party shall in particular:

(A) have the right to include written comments related to the inspection of its stationed conventional armed forces; and

(B) retain one copy of the inspection report in the case of inspection of its stationed conventional armed forces.

Section XIII
PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES OF INSPECTORS AND
TRANSPORT CREW MEMBERS

1. To exercise their functions effectively, for the purpose of implementing the Treaty and not for their personal benefit, inspectors and transport crew members shall be accorded the privileges and immunities enjoyed by diplomatic agents pursuant to Article 29; Article 30, paragraph 2; Article 31, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3; Articles 34 and 35 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of April 18, 1961.

2. In addition, inspectors and transport crew members shall be accorded the privileges enjoyed by diplomatic agents pursuant to Article 36, paragraph 1, subparagraph (b) of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of April 18, 1961. They shall not be permitted to bring into the territory of the State Party where the inspection is to be carried out articles the import or export of which is prohibited by law or controlled by quarantine regulations of that State Party.

3. The transportation means of the inspection team shall be inviolable, except as otherwise provided for in the Treaty.

4. The inspecting State Party may waive the immunity from jurisdiction of any of its inspectors or transport crew members in those cases when it is of the opinion that immunity would impede the course of justice and that it can be waived without prejudice to the implementation of the provisions of the Treaty. The immunity of inspectors and transport crew members who are not nationals of the inspecting State Party may be waived only by the States Parties of which those inspectors are nationals. Waiver must always be express.

5. The privileges and immunities provided for in this Section shall be accorded to inspectors and transport crew members:

(A) while transiting through the territory of any State Party for the purpose of conducting an inspection on the territory of another State Party;

(B) throughout their presence on the territory of the State Party where the inspection is carried out; and

(C) thereafter with respect to acts previously performed in the exercise of official functions as an inspector or transport crew member.

6. If the inspected State Party considers that an inspector or transport crew member has abused his or her privileges and immunities, then the provisions set forth in Section VI, paragraph 6 of this Protocol shall apply. At the request of any of the States Parties concerned, consultations shall be held between them in order to prevent a repetition of such an abuse.

Protocol on the Joint Consultative Group


The States Parties hereby agree upon procedures and other provisions relating to the Joint Consultative Group established by Article XVI of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe of November 19, 1990, hereinafter referred to as the Treaty.

1. The Joint Consultative Group shall be composed of representatives designated by each State Party. Alternates, advisers and experts of a State Party may take part in the proceedings of the Joint Consultative Group as deemed necessary by that State Party.

2. The first session of the Joint Consultative Group shall open no later than 60 days after the signing of the Treaty. The Chairman of the opening meeting shall be the representative of the Kingdom of Norway.

3. The Joint Consultative Group shall meet for regular sessions to be held two times per year.

4. Additional sessions shall be convened at the request of one or more States Parties by the Chairman of the Joint Consultative Group, who shall promptly inform all other States Parties of the request. Such sessions shall open no later than 15 days after receipt of such a request by the Chairman.

5. Sessions of the Joint Consultative Group shall last no longer than four weeks, unless it decides otherwise.

6. States Parties shall assume in rotation, determined by alphabetical order in the French language, the Chairmanship of the Joint Consultative Group.

7. The Joint Consultative Group shall meet in Vienna, unless it decides otherwise.

8. Representatives at meetings shall be seated in alphabetical order of the States Parties in the French language.

9. The official languages of the Joint Consultative Group shall be English, French, German, Italian, Russian and Spanish.

10. The proceedings of the Joint Consultative Group shall be confidential, unless it decides otherwise.

11. The scale of distribution for the common expenses associated with the operation of the Joint Consultative Group shall be aplied, unless otherwise decided by the Joint Consultative Group, as follows:


10.35% for the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Italian Republic, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of
America;

6.50% for Canada;

5.20% for the Kingdom of Spain;

4.00% for the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Republic of Poland;

2.34% for the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Republic of Hungary and
the Kingdom of Norway;

0.88% for the Hellenic Republic, Romania and the Republic of Turkey;

0.68% for the Republic of Bulgaria, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Portuguese Republic; and

0.16% for the Republic of Iceland.

12. During the period that this Protocol is aplied provisionally in accordance with the Protocol on Provisional Application, the Joint Consultative Group shall:

(A) work out or revise, as necessary, rules of procedure, working methods, the scale of distribution of expenses of the Joint Consultative Group and of conferences, and the distribution of the costs of inspections between or among States Parties, in accordance with Article XVI, paragraph 2, subparagraph (F) of the Treaty; and

(B) consider, upon the request of any State Party, issues relating to the provisions of the Treaty that are applied provisionally.

Protocol on the Provisional Application of Certain Provisions of the 
Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe

To promote the implementation of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe of November 19, 1990, hereinafter referred to as the Treaty, the State Parties hereby agree to the provisional application of certain provisions of the Treaty.

1. Without detriment to the provisions of Article XXII of the Treaty, the States Parties shall apply provisionaly the following provisions of the Treaty:

(A) Article VII, paragraphs 2, 3 and 4;
(B) Article VIII, paragraphs 5, 6 and 8;
(C) Article IX;
(D) Article XIII;
(E) Article XVI, paragraphs 1, 2 (F), 2 (G), 4, 6 and 7;
(F) Article XVII;
(G) Article XVIII;
(H) Article XXI, paragraph 2;
(I) Protocol on Existing Types, Sections III and IV;
(J) Protocol on Information Exchange, Sections VII, XII and XIII;
(K) Protocol on Inspection, Section II, paragraph 24, subparagraph (A) and Section III, paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12;
(L) Protocol on the Joint Consultative Group; and
(M) Protocol on Reduction, Section IX.

2. The States Parties shall apply provisionally the provisions listed in paragraph 1 of this Protocol in the light of and in conformity with the other provisions of the Treaty.

3. This Protocol shall enter into force at the signature of the Treaty. It shall remain in force for 12 months, but shall terminate earlier if:

(A) the Treaty enters into force before the period of 12 months expires; or
(B) a State Party notifies all other States Parties that it does not intend to become a party to the Treaty;
The period of application of this Protocol may be extended if all the States Parties so decide.

Done At Paris, this nineteenth day of November, one thousand nine hundred and ninety.

Documents pertaining to the Treaty

Declaration of the States Parties to the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe 
with respect to Land-based Naval Aircraft,
Paris, 19 November 1990

To promote the implementation of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, the States Parties to the Treaty undertake the following political commitments outside the framework of the Treaty.

1. No one State will have in the area of application of the Treaty more than 400 permanently land-based combat naval aircraft. It is understood that this commitment applies to combat aircraft armed and equipped to engage surface or air targets and excludes types designed as maritime patrol aircraft.

2. The aggregate number of such permanently land-based combat naval aircraft held by either of the two groups of States defined under the terms of the Treaty will not exceed 430.

3. No one State will hold in its naval forces within the area of application any permanently land-based attack helicopters.

4. The limitations provided for in this Declaration will apply beginning 40 months after entry into force of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe.

5. This Declaratoin will become effective as of entry into force of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe.

Statement by the Chairman of the Joint Consultative Group,
18 October 1991

"1. I hereby record that:

"(a) The States Parties to the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe of 19 November 1990, hereinafter referred to as the Treaty, acknowledge that in view of the sovereignty of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, the area of application defined in Article II of the Treaty does not include the territories of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.

"(b) I have today received a statement from the Representative of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics as follows:
" 'In order to fulfill the legally-binding obligations of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe and of the agreements entered into by the States Parties on 14 June 1991, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics shall treat all its conventional armaments and equipment in the categories defined in Article II of the Treaty present, on or after 19 November 1990, on the territories of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania as subject to all provisions of the Treaty and associated documents. In particular, conventional armaments and equipment in the categories limited by the Treaty shall be notified as part of Soviet holdings and shall count towards the Soviet reduction liability. This statement shall be legally binding and shall have the same duration as the Treaty.'

"(c) I have also received statements from the representatives of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, Canada, the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Iceland, the Italian Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Kingdom of Norway, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America that, in accordance with the legally-binding statement made by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, all Soviet conventional armaments and equipment in the categories defined in Article II of the Treaty present, on or after 19 November 1990, on the territories of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania shall be treated as subject to all provisions of the Treaty, its associated documents and the legally-binding commitment entered into by the Union of Soviet Socalist Republics on 14 June 1991. In particular, conventional armaments and equipment in the categories limited by the Treaty shall be notified as part of Soviet holdings and shall count towards the Soviet reduction liability.

"(d) The States Parties acknowledge that arrangements for inspection of the above-mentioned conventional armaments and equipment on the territories of Estonia, Latvia an dLithuania will require the consent and cooperation of those States.

"2. This Chairman's statement, recording the above legally binding agreement among the States parties, which will not be considered a precedent, will be recorded in the Journal, transmitted to the Depositary and deposited together with the instruments of ratification."

Final Document of the Extraordinary Conference of the States Parties to the CFE Treaty, 
Oslo, 5 June 1992*


The Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Republic of Belarus, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, Canada, the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the French Republic, the Republic of Georgia, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Iceland, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Moldova, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Kingdom of Norway, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Russian Federation, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America, which are the States parties to the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe of November 19, 1990, hereinafter referred to as the States Parties,

Reaffirming their determination to bring into force the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe of November 19, 1990, hereinafter referred to as the Treaty, by the time of the Helsinki Summit Meeting of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe on July 9-10, 1992.

Desiring to meet the objectives and requirements of the Treaty while responding to the historic changes which have occurred in Europe since the Treaty was signed,

Recalling in this context the undertaking in paragraph 4 of the Joint Declaration of Twenty-Two States signed in Paris on November 19, 1990, to maintain only such military capabilities as are necessary to prevent war and provide for effective defence and to bear in mind the relationship between military capabilities and doctrines, and confirming their commitment to that undertaking,

Having met together at an Extraordinary Conference chaired by the Kingdom of Spain in Oslo on June 5, 1992, pursuant to Article XXI, paragraph 2, of the Treaty, as provisionally applied,

___________
* Document issued at the Extraordinary Conference, 5 June 1992, Oslo. Text obtained from the Royal Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.


Have agreed as follows: 

1. The understandings, notifications, confirmations and commitments contained or referred to in this Final Document and its Annexes A and B, together with the deposit of instruments of ratification by all the States Parties, shall be deemed as fulfilling the requirements for entry into force of the Treaty in accordance with its provisions. Accordingly, the Treaty shall enter into force 10 days after the last such instrument has been deposited.

2. In this context, the States Parties note the Agreement of May 15, 1992, on the Principles and Procedures of Implementation of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, the four Protocols to that Agreement and the Joint Declaration of May 15, 1992, in relation to the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, as transmitted on June 1, 1992, by that Agreement's Depositary to all States Parties to the Treaty. In this regard, Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 11, and 12 of that Agreement, the four Protocols to that Agreement, and the Joint Declaration of May 15, 1992, in relation to the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe contain necessary confirmations and information.

3. The States Parties confirm the understandings as elaborated in the Joint Consultative Group, and specified in Annex A of this Final Document.

4. The States Parties confirm all decisions and recommendations adopted by the Joint Consultative Group.

5. This Final Document in no way alters the rights and obligations of the States Parties as set forth in the Treaty and its associated documents.

6. This final document shall enter into force upon signature by all of the States Parties.

7. This final document, together with its Annexes A and B, which are integral to it, in all the official languages of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, shall be deposited with the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, as the designated Depositary for the Treaty, which shall circulate copies of this Final Document to all the States Parties.

Annex A
Understandings

1. The first paragraph of the Preamble of the Treaty shall be understood to read:
"the Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Republic of Belarus, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, Canada, the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the French Republic, the Republic of Georgia, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Iceland, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Moldova, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Kingdom of Norway, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Russian Federation, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of Turkey, Ukraine, the United States of America, hereinafter referred to as the States Parties,".

2. The second paragraph of the Preamble of the Treaty shall be understood to read:

"Guided by the Mandate for Negotiation on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe of January 10, 1989,".

The third paragraph of the Preamble of the Treaty shall be understood to read:
"Guided by the objectives and the purposes of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, within the framework of which the negotiation of this Treaty was conducted in Vienna beginning on March 9, 1989,".

3. With regard to the ninth paragraph of the Preamble of the Treaty, it is noted that the Treaty of Warsaw of 1955 is no longer in force, and that some of the States Parties in the first group specified in paragraph 4 of this Annex did not sign or accede to that Treaty.

4. The "groups of States Parties" referred to in paragraph 1(a) of Article II of the Treaty shall be understood to consist of:
"the Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, the Republic of Georgia, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Republic of Moldova, the Republic of Poland, Romania, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine,"

and

"the Kingdom of Belgium, Canada, the Kingdom of Denmark, the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Iceland, the Italian Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Kingdom of Norway, the Portuguese Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America.".

5. The first two sentences of paragraph 1(b) of Article II of the Treaty shall be understood to read:
"the term 'area of application' means the entire land territory of the States parties in Europe from the Atlantic Ocean to the Ural Mountains, which includes all the European island territories of the States Parties, including the Faroe Islands of the Kingdom of Denmark, Svalbard including Bear Island of the Kingdom of Norway, the Islands of Azores and Madeira of the Portuguese Republic, the Canary Islands of the Kingdom of Spain and Franz Josef Land and Novaya Zemlya of the Russian Federation. In the case of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Kazakhstan, the area of application includes all territory lying west of the Ural River and the Caspian Sea.".

6. In Article IV of the Treaty, in accordance with the map provided by the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics at signature of the Treaty:

--the second sentence of the second part of paragraph 1 shall be understood to read:
"such designated permanent storage sites may also be located in the Republic of Moldova, that part of Ukraine comprising the portion of the former Odessa Military District on its territory, and that part of the territory of the Russian Federation comprising the southern part of the Leningrad Military District."

--the first sentence of paragraph 2 shall be understood to read:
"within the area consisting of the entire land territory in Europe, which includes all the European island territories, of the Republic of Belarus, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark including the Faroe islands, the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Hungary, the Italian Republic, that part of the Republic of Kazakhstan within the area of application, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic including the islands of Azores and Madeira, that part of the Russian Federation comprising the portion of the former Baltic Military District on its territory, the Moscow Military District and the portion of the Volga-Ural Military District on its territory west of the Ural Mountains, the Kingdom of Spain including the Canary Islands, that part of the territory of Ukraine comprising the former Carpathian and former Kiev Military Districts and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, each State Party shall limit and, as necessary, reduce its battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles and artillery so that, 40 months after entry into force of this Treaty and thereafter, for the group of States Parties to which it belongs the aggregate numbers do not exceed:"

--the first sentence of paragraph 3 shall be understood to read:
"within the area consisting of the entire land territory in Europe, which includes all the European island territories, of the Republic of Belarus, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark including the Faroe Islands, the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Hungary, the Italian Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Poland, that part of the Russian Federation comprising the portion of the former Baltic Military District on its territory, that part of the territory of Ukraine comprising the former Carpathian and former Kiev Military Districts and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, each State Party shall limit and, as necessary, reduce its battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles and artillery so that, 40 months after entry into force of this Treaty and thereafter, for the group of States Parties to which it belongs the aggregate numbers of active units do not exceed:

--the first sentence in paragraph 3(d) shall be understood to read:
"in that part of Ukraine comprising the former Kiev military district, the aggregate numbers in active units and designated permanent storage sites together shall not exceed:".
7. The first sentence of paragraph 1(a) of Article V of the Treaty shall be understood, in accordance with the map provided by the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics at signature of the Treaty, to read:
"within the area consisting of the entire land territory in Europe, which includes all the European island territories, of the Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Georgia, the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Iceland, the Republic of Moldova, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania, that part of the Russian Federation comprising the Leningrad and North Caucasus Military Districts, the part of the Republic of Turkey within the area of application and that part of Ukraine comprising the portion of the former Odessa Military District on its territory, each State Party shall limit and, as necesary, reduce its battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles and artillery so that, 40 months after entry into force of this Treaty and thereafter, for the group of States Parties to which it belongs the aggregate numbers in active units do not exceed the difference between the overall numerical limitations set forth in Article IV, paragraph 1, and those in Article IV, paragraph 2, that is:".
8. Paragraph 3 of Section I of the Protocol Governing the Categorisation of Combat Helicopters and Recategorisation of Multi-Purpose Attack Helicopters shall be understood to read:
"Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph 2 of this Section and as a unique exception to that paragraph, the Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Georgia, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Republic of Moldova, the Russian Federation and Ukraine may hold an aggregate total not to exceed 100 MI-24R and MI-24K helicopters equipped for reconnaissance, spotting, or chemical/biological/radiological sampling which shall not be subject to the limitations on attack helicopters in Articles IV and VI of the Treaty. Such helicopters shall be subject to exchange of information in accordance with the Protocol on Information Exchange and to internal inspection in accordance with Section VI, paragraph 30 of the Protocol on Inspection. MI-24R and MI-24K helicopters in excess of this limit shall be categorised as specialised attack helicopters regardless of how they are equipped and shall count against the limitations on attack helicopters in Articles IV and VI of the Treaty.".
9. With reference to paragraph 11 of the Protocol on the Joint Consultative Group, the proportion of the expenses of the Joint Consultative Group allocated to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics shall become the collective responsibility of the Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Georgia, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Republic of Moldova, the Russian Federation and Ukraine.

Annex B
Notification, Confirmation and Commitments

I. Notifications

1. The States Parties note that each State Party has provided to all other States Parties notifications of maximum levels for its holdings of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty (Article VII, paragraph 2) in advance of the Extraordinary Conference.

2. Each State Party shall provide the following notifications and information, where applicable, to all other States Parties no later than July 1, 1992:

(a) in view of the inspection requirements in the Treaty, information on its objects of verification and declared sites effective as of November 19, 1990 (Protocol on Notification and Exchange of Information, Section V and Annex on the Format for the Exchange of Information, Section V);

(b) list of its points of entry/exit (Annex on Format for the Exchange of Information, Section V, paragraph 3);

(c) notification of changes to its points of entry/exit (Protocol on Inspection, Section III, paragraph 11);

(d) lists of its proposed inspectors and transport crew members (Protocol on Inspection, Section III, paragraph 3);

(e) notification of deletions from the lists of inspectors and transport crew members (Protocol on Inspection, Section III, paragraphs 4 and 7);

(f) notification of its standing diplomatic clearance numbers for transportation means (Protocol on Inspection, Section III, paragraph 9);

(g) notification of the official language or languages to be used by inspection teams (Protocol on Inspection, Section III, paragraph 12);

(h) notification of its active inspection quota for the baseline validation period (Protocol on Inspection, Section II, paragraph 24);

(i) notification of entry into service of new types, models or versions of conventional armaments and equipment subject to the Treaty (Protocol on Existing Types, Section IV, paragraph 3);

(j) notification in the event of destruction by accident, and documentary evidence supporting destruction by accident, of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty (Protocol on Reduction, Section IX, paragraphs 2 and 3).

II. Confirmations

1. With regard to Article VIII, paragraph 7, of the Treaty, the States Parties confirm that, except as otherwise provided for in the Treaty, their respective reduction liabilities in each category shall be no less than the difference between their respective holdings notified, in accordance with the Protocol on Information Exchange, as of the signature of the Treaty, and their respective maximum levels for holdings notified pursuant to Article VII. In this regard, for those States Parties that have jointly confirmed the validity for them of holdings as of the signature of the Treaty, the sum of their reduction liabilities in each category shall, except as otherwise provided for in the Treaty, be no less than the difference between the jointly confirmed holdings and the sum of their maximum levels for holdings notified pursuant to Article VII.

2. The States Parties confirm their commitment, in the Declaration of the States Parties to the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe with Respect to Personnel Strength of November 19, 1990, not to increase during the period of the negotiations referred to in Article XVIII of the Treaty the total peacetime authorised personnel strength of their conventional armed forces pursuant to the Mandate in the area of application.

3. The States Parties confirm their commitment to the Declaration of the States Parties to the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe with Respect to Land-Based Naval Aircraft of November 19, 1990.

4. The States Parties confirm their adherence to the agreement set out in the Statement by the Chairman of the Joint Consultative Group on October 18, 1991.
III. Commitments

A. Costs

1. In accordance with Article XVI, paragraph 2(f), of the Treaty, and with reference to paragraph 11 of the Protocol on the Joint Consultative Group, the Joint Consultative Group shall review its scale of distribution of expenses after entry into force of the Treaty in the light of decisions taken on the scale of distribution of expenses of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe.
B. Article XII

1. In order to meet the security interests of all States Parties in light of new circumstances in Europe, the States Parties shall as a first priority seek to reach agreement, immediately after entry into force of the Treaty, on Article XII, paragraph 1, of the Treaty.

2. In this context, the States Parties will cooperate to respect the security objectives of Article XII within the area of application of the Treaty. In particular, no State Party will increase, within the area of application, its holdings of armoured infantry fighting vehicles held by organizations designed and structured to perform in peacetime internal security functions above that aggregate number held by such organizations at the time of signature of the Treaty, as notified pursuant to the information exchange effective as of November 19, 1990.

3. Notwithstanding the political commitment set forth in paragraph 2 above, any State Party that had an aggregate number of armoured infantry fighting vehicles held by organizations designed and structured to perform in peacetime internal security functions on its territory, as notified effective as of November 19, 1990, that was less than five percent of its maximum levels for holdings for armoured combat vehicles, as notified pursuant to Article VII, paragraph 2, of the Treaty, or less than 100 such armoured infantry fighting vehicles, whichever is greater, will have the right to increase its holdings of such armoured infantry fighting vehicles to an aggregate number not to exceed five percent of its maximum levels for holdings for armoured combat vehicles, as notified pursuant to Article VII, paragraph 2, of the Treaty, or to an aggregate number not to exceed 100, whichever is greater.


Documents of the Joint Extraordinary Conference of the 
States Parties to the CFE Treaty
Vienna, February 5, 1993

1. Upon the request of the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic, a joint Extraordinary Conference was convened in Vienna on February 5, 1993, pursuant to Article XXI, paragraph 2, of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe of November 19, 1990 and Section VII, paragraph 4, of the Concluding Act of the Negotiation on Personnel Strength of Conventional Armed Forces in Europe of July 10, 1992.

2. At the joint Extraordinary Conference:
(a) The States Parties agreed on the Document of the States Parties to the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe and its Annexes, as attached to this document; and

(b) The participating States adopted the Document of the participating States of the Concluding Act of the Negotiation on Personnel Strength of Conventional Armed Forces in Europe and its Annex, as attached to this document.
3. The Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands will circulate this document, together with the attached Documents and their Annexes, in all the official languages of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, to all States Parties of the Treaty and participating States of the Concluding Act.


Document of the States Parties to the 
Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe

The Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Republic of Belarus, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, Canada, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the French Republic, the Republic of Georgia, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Iceland, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Moldova, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Kingdom of Norway, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Russian Federation, the Slovak Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America, which are the States Parties to the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe of November 19, 1990, hereinafter referred to as the States Parties,

Committed to meeting the objectives and requirements of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe of November 19, 1990, hereinafter referred to as the Treaty, while responding to the historic changes which occurred in Europe since the Treaty was signed,

Recalling in this context the undertaking in paragraph 4 of the Joint Declaration of Twenty-Two States signed in Paris on November 19, 1990, to maintain only such military capabilities as are necesary to prevent war and provide for effective defence and to bear in mind the relationship between military capabilities and doctrines, and confirming their commitment to that undertaking, 

Having met together at a joint Extraordinary Conference chaired by the Hellenic Republic in Vienna on February 5, 1993, pursuant to Article XXI, paragraph 2, of the Treaty and Section VII, paragraph 4, of the Concluding Act,

Have agreed as follows:

1. The understandings, notifications, confirmations and commitments contained or referred to in this Document and its Annexes shall be deemed as fufilling the requirements necessary in order for the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic fully to exercise the rights and fulfill the obligations as set forth in the Treaty and its associated documents.

2. In this context, the States Parties note the Agreement Between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Slovak Republic, of January 12, 1993, on the Principles and Procedures for Implementing the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe and the Concluding Act of the Negotiation on Personnel Strength of Conventional Armed Forces in Europe and the Protocols to that Agreement, as transmitted on January 20, 1993 by the Czech Republic to all States Parties to the Treaty. In this regard, Articles I, II (paragraph 2), III (paragraphs 1-3) and Articles IV-VII of that Agreement, the Protocol on Maximum Levels for Holdings of Conventional Armaments and Equipment Limited by the Treaty of the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic, the Protocol concerning Armoured Vehicle Launched Bridges in Active Units, the Protocol on Conventional Armaments and Equipment Limited by the Treaty Designated for Conversion for Non-Military Purposes, and the Protocol on Active and Passive Declared Site Inspect
ion Quotas for the First Phase of the Reduction Period to that Agreement, and paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Protocol on the Reduction Liability to that Agreement contain necessary confirmations, information, and commitments.

3. The States Parties note the notifications by the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic listed in the Annex to this Document on Notifications Related to the Treaty.

4. The States Parties confirm the understandings specified in the Annex to this Document on Understandings Related to the Treaty.

5. The States Parties confirm all decisions and recommendations adopted by the Joint Consultative Group related to the Treaty.

6. This Document in no way alters the rights and obligations of the States Parties as set forth in the Treaty and its associated documents.

7. This Document shall enter into force upon signature by all the States Parties.

8. This Document, together with its Annexes, which are integral to it, in all the official languages of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, shall be deposited with the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, as the designated Depositary for the Treaty, which shall circulate true copies of this Document to all the States Parties.


Annex on Notifications Related to the Treaty

A. The States Parties note the following notifications from the Czech Republic as transmitted on January 29, 1993:

1. Maximum level for holdings of conventional armament and equipment limited by the Treaty;

2. Reduction liability in the categories of conventional armament and equipment limited by the Treaty;

3. Number of battle tanks and armoured combat vehicles designated for conversion for non-military purposes;

4. List of the points of entry/exit;

5. Lists of inspectors and transport crew members;

6. Diplomatic clearance number;

7. Official languages;

8. Passive inspection quota for the first year of reduction period;

9. Active inspection quota for the first year of reduction period (revised February 1, 1993);

10. Counting of the aircraft destructed by accident;

11. Armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty and retained outside the territory of the Czech Republic (revised February 1, 1993);

12. List of reduction sites of the Czech Republic;

13. Aggregate number of armament and equipment limited by the Treaty used exclusively for purpose of research and development;

14. Number of armament and equipment limited by the Treaty awaiting export/re-export; and

15. Number and types of conventional armament and equipment removed from service and reduced during previous 12 months.

The States Parties also note that, by its Note Verbale of January 29, 1993, the Czech Republic informed "all Delegations to the Joint Consultative Group that the data of Ministry of Defence, General Staff, Military Command West, Military Command Middle and of all the formations and units subordinated to them contained in the Exchange of Information submitted by the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic on December 15, 1992 are valid for Armed Forces of the Czech Republic until superseded by a subsequent exchange of information of the Czech Republic."

B. The States Parties note the following notifications from the Slovak Republic as transmitted on January 29, 1993 (1-11) and February 4, 1993 (12 and 13):

1. Maximum levels for holdings of conventional armaments and equipment and numbers of national personnel limits limited by the Treaty (revised February 2, 1993);

2. Reduction liability in the categories of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty (revised February 2, 1993);

3. Number of battle tanks and armoured combat vehicles designated for conversion for non-military purposes;

4. List of the points of entry/exit into and out of the territory of the Slovak Republic (revised February 2, 1993); 

5. List of inspectors;

6. Standing diplomatic clearance number;

7. Official languages;

8. Passive inspection quota for the first year of reduction period;

9. Active inspection quota for the first year of reduction period (revised February 2, 1993);

10. Numbers of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty awaiting export/re-export and retained outside the territory of the Slovak Republic (revised February 2, 1993);

11. Numbers and types of conventional armaments and equipment removed from service and reduced during previous 12 months;

12. Aggregate number of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty used exclusively for the purpose of research and development; and 

13. Numbers of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty and retained outside the teritory of the Slovak Republic.

The States Parties also note that, by its Note Verbale of January 29, 1993, the Slovak Republic informed "all Delegations to the Joint Consultative Group that the data of Military Command East and of all formations and units subordinated to it contained in the Exchange of Information submitted by the Czech and Slovak Republic on December 15, 1992 are valid for Armed Forces of the Slovak Republic until next exchange of information of the Slovak Republic in March 1993."


Annex on Understandings Related to the Treaty


1. The first paragraph of the Preamble of the Treaty shall be understood to read:
"the Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Republic of Belarus, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, Canada, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the French Republic, the Republic of Georgia, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Iceland, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Moldova, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Kingdom of Norway, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Russian Federation, the Slovak Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America, hereinafter referred to as the States Parties,".
2. The "groups of States Parties" referred to in paragraph 1(A) of Article II of the Treaty shall be understood to consist of:
"the Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Republic of Georgia, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Republic of Moldova, the Republic of Poland, Romania, the Russian Federation, the Slovak Republic, and Ukraine,"
and
"the Kingdom of Belgium, Canada, the Kingdom of Denmark, the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Iceland, the Italian Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Kingdom of Norway, the Portuguese Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America."
3. In Article IV of the Treaty:

-the first sentence of paragraph 2 shall be understood to read:
"within the area consisting of the entire land territory in Europe, which includes all the European island territories, of the Republic of Belarus, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, including the Faroe Islands, the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Hungary, the Italian Republic, that part of the area of the Republic of Kazakhstan within the area of application, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic including the islands of Azores and Madeira, that part of the Russian Federation comprising the portion of the former Baltic Military District on its territory, the Moscow Military District and the portion of the Volga-Ural Military District on its territory west of the Ural Mountains, the Slovak Republic, the Kingdom of Spain including the Canary Islands, that part of the territory of Ukraine comprising the former Carpathian and former Kiev Military Districts and the United Kin
gdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, each State Party shall limit and, as necesary, reduce its battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles and artillery so that, 40 months after entry into force of this Treaty and thereafter, for the group of States Parties to which it belongs the aggregate numbers do not exceed:"
-the first sentence of paragraph 3 shall be understood to read:
"within the area consisting of the entire land territory in Europe, which includes all the European island territories, of the Republic of Belarus, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, including the Faroe Islands, the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Hungary, the Italian Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Poland, that part of the Russian Federation comprising the portion of the former Baltic Military District on its territory, the Slovak Republic, that part of the territory of Ukraine comprising the former Carpathian and former Kiev Military Districts and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, each State Party shall limit and, as necessary, reduce its battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles and artillery so that, 40 months after entry into force of this Treaty and thereafter, for the group of States Parties to which it belongs the aggregate numbers in active units do not exceed:"
-the first sentence of paragraph 4 shall be understood to read:

"within the area consisting of the entire land territory in Europe, which includes all the European island territories, of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Czech Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Hungary, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Poland and the Slovak Republic, each State Party shall limit and, as necesary, reduce its battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles and artillery so that, 40 months after entry into force of this Treaty and thereafter, for the group of States Parties to which it belongs the aggregate numbers in active units do not exceed:"

4. In paragraph 11 of the Protocol on the Joint Consultataive Group, and without prejudice to any review by the Joint Consultative Group of its scale of distribution of expenses in accordance with paragraph 2(F) of Article XVI of the Treaty, the term "2.34% for the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic" shall be understood to read "1.56% for the Czech Republic" and "0.78% for the Slovak Republic."

*
* *
Document of the Participating States of the Concluding Act
of the Negotiation on Personnel Strength of 
Conventional Armed Forces in Europe

The Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Republic of Belarus, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, Canada, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the French Republic, the Republic of Georgia, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Iceland, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Moldova, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Kingdom of Norway, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Russian Federation, the Slovak Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America, which are participating States of the Concluding Act of the Negotiation on Personnel Strength of Conventional Armed Forces in Europe of July 10, 1992, hereinafter referred to as the participating States.

Committed to implementing fully the Concluding Act of the Negotiation on Personnel Strength of Conventional Armed Forces in Europe of July 10, 1992, hereinafter referred to as the Concluding Act, while responding to the historic changes which have occurred in Europe since the Concluding Act was signed,

Recalling in this context the undertaking in paragraph 4 of the Joint Declaration of Twenty-Two States signed in Paris on November 19, 1990, to maintain only such military capabilities as are necessary to prevent war and provide for effective defence and to bear in mind the relationship between military capabilities and doctrines, and confirming their commitment to that undertaking,

Having met together at a joint Extraordinary Conference chaired by the Hellenic Republic in Vienna on February 5, 1993, pursuant to Article XXI, paragraph 2 of the Treaty and Section VII, paragraph 4, of the Concluding Act,

Have adopted the following:

1. The understandings, notifications, confirmations and commitments contained or referred to in this Document and in its Annex fulfill the requirements necessary in order for the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic fully to implement the measures in the Concluding Act.

2. In this context, the participating States note the Agreement Between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Slovak Republic, of January 12, 1993 on the Principles and Procedures for Implementing the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe and the Concluding Act of the Negotiation on Personnel Strength of Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, as transmitted on January 20, 1993 by the Czech Republic to all participating States. In this regard, Article II (paragraph 3) of that Agreement and the Protocol on National Personnel Limits to that Agreement contain necessary confirmations, information, and commitments.

3. The participating States confirm the understandings specified in the Annex to this Document.

4. The participating States confirm all decisions and recommendations adopted by the Joint Consultative Group related to the Concluding Act.

5. This Document in no way alters the measures adopted by the participating States in the Concluding Act.

6. The measures adopted in this Document are politically binding. Accordingly, this document is not eligible for registration under Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations. This Document will come into effect simultaneously with the entry into force of the Document of the States Parties to the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe agreed by the States Parties at the joint Extraordinary Conference on February 5, 1993.

7. The Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands will transmit true copies of this Document and its Annex, the original of which is in English, French, German, Italian, Russian and Spanish, to all participating States.
Annex on Understandings Related to the Concluding Act

1. In the first paragraph of the preamble of the Concluding Act, it is understood that the reference to "the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic" is deleted and that "the Czech Republic" and "the Slovak Federal Republic" are added to that list in appropriate alphabetical order.

2. In the list of participating States set forth in Section II, paragraph I of the Concluding Act, it is understood that the reference to "the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic" is deleted and that "the Czech Republic" and "the Slovak Republic" are added to that list in appropriate alphabetical order.

3. In the list referenced in paragraph 2 above, it is understood that the Czech Republic has a national personnel limit of 93,333 and the Slovak Republic has a national personnel limit of 46,667.
*
* *
Final Document of the First Conference to Review the Operation of the 
Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe and the 
Concluding Act of the Negotiation on Personnel Strength 
Vienna, 15-31 May 1996

Annex A:
Document agreed among the States Parties to the Treaty on
Conventional Armed Forces in Europe of November 19, 1990

The 30 States Parties to the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe of November 19, 1990, hereinafter referred to as the Treaty, 

Have agreed as follows:
I

1. Each State Party shall, taking into account the clarification set forth in this Document relating to the area described in Article V, subparagraph 1(A), of the Treaty and taking into account the understandings on flexibility set forth in this Document, comply fully with the numerical limitations set forth in the Treaty, including Article V thereof, no later than 31 May 1999.

2. Paragraph 1 of this Section shall be understood as not giving any State Party, which was in compliance with the numerical limitations set forth in the Treaty, including Article V thereof, as of 1 January 1996, the right to exceed any of the numerical limitations set forth in the Treaty.

3. Pursuant to the Decision of the Joint Consultative Group of 17 November 1995, the States Parties shall co-operate to the maximum extent possible to ensure the full implementation of the provisions of this Document.

II

1. Within the area described in Article V, subparagraph 1(A), of the Treaty, as understood by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics at the time the Treaty was signed, Russian Federation shall limit its battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, and artillery so that, no later than 31 May 1999 and thereafter, the aggregate numbers do not exceed:


(A) 1,800 battle tanks;

(B) 3,700 armoured combat vehicles, of which no more than 552 shall be located within the Astrakhan oblast; no more than 552 shall be located within the Volgograd oblast; no more than 310 shall be located within the eastern part of the Rostov oblast described in Section III, paragraph 1, of this Document; and no more than 600 shall be located within the Pskov oblast; and
(C) 2,400 pieces of artillery.


2. Within the Odessa oblast, Ukraine shall limit its battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, and artillery so that, upon provisional application of this Document and thereafter, the aggregate numbers do not exceed:

(A) 400 battle tanks;
(B) 400 armoured combat vehicles; and
(C) 350 pieces of artillery.


3. Upon provisional application of this Document and until 31 May 1999, the Russian Federation shall limit its battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, and artillery, within the area described in Article V, subparagraph 1(A), of the Treaty, as understood by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics at the time the Treaty was signed, so that the aggregate numbers do not exceed:

(A) 1,897 battle tanks;
(B) 4,397 armoured combat vehicles; and
(C 2,422 pieces of artillery.

III

1. For the purposes of this Document and the Treaty, the following territory, as constituted on 1 January 1996, of the Russian Federation shall be deemed to be located in the area described in Article IV, paragraph 2, of the Treaty rather than in the area described in Article V, subparagraph 1(A), of the Treaty: the Pskov oblast; the Volgograd oblast; the Astrakhan oblast; that part of the Rostov oblast east of the line extending from Kushchevskaya to Volgodonsk to the Volgograd oblast border, including Volgodonsk; and Kushchevskaya and a narrow corridor in Krasnodar kray leading to Kushchevskaya.


2. For the purposes of this Document and the Treaty, the territory of the Odessa oblast, as constituted on 1 January 1996, of Ukraine shall be deemed to be located in the area described in Article IV, paragraph 3, of the Treaty rather than in the area described in Article V, subparagraph 1(A), of the Treaty.

IV

1. The States Parties shall, during the period before 31 May 1999, examine the Treaty provisions on designated permanent storage sites so as to allow all battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, and artillery in designated permanent storage sites, including those subject to regional numerical limitations, to be located with active units.


2. The Russian Federation shall have the right to utilize to the maximum extent possible the provisions of the Treaty on temporary deployment of battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, and artillery within its territory and outside its territory. Such temporary deployments on the territory of other States Parties shall be achieved by means of free negotiations and with full respect for the sovereignty of the States Parties involved.


3. The Russian Federation shall have the right to utilize, to the maximum extent possible, reallocation, in accordance with existing agreements, of the current quotas for battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, and artillery established by the Agreement on the Principles and Procedures for the Implementation of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, done at Tashkent on 15 May 1992. Such reallocations shall be achieved by means of free negotiations and with full respect for the sovereignty of the States Parties involved.


4. The Russian Federation shall count against the numerical limitations established in the Treaty and paragraph 1 of Section II of this Document any armoured combat vehicles listed as 'to be removed' in its information exchange of 1 January 1996 that are not so removed by 31 May 1999.

V

1. In addition to the annual information exchange provided pursuant to Section VII, subparagraph 1(C), of the Protocol on Notification and Exchange of Information, the Russian Federation shall provide information equal to that reported in the annual information exchange on the area described in Article V, subparagraph 1(A), of the Treaty, as understood by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics at the time the Treaty was signed, upon provisional application of this Document and every six months after the annual information exchange. In the case of Kuskchevskaya, the Russian Federation shall provide such additional information every three months after the annual information exchange.


2. Upon provisional application of this Document, Ukraine shall provide 'F21' notifications for its holdings within the Odessa oblast on the basis of changes of five, rather than ten, per cent or more in assigned holdings.


3 Subject to paragraphs 5 and 6 of this Section, the Russian Federation shall, upon provisional application of this Document, accept each year, in addition to its passive declared site inspection quota established pursuant to Section II, subparagraph 10(D), of the Protocol on Inspection, up to a total of 10 supplementary declared site inspections, conducted in accordance with the Protocol on Inspection, at objects of verification:

(A) located within the Pskov oblast; the Volgograd oblast; the Astrakhan oblast; that part of the Rostov oblast east of the line extending from Kushchevskaya to Volgodonsk to the Volgograd oblast border, including Volgodonsk; and Kuskchevskaya and a narrow corridor in Kasnodar kray leading to Kushchevskaya;

(B) containing conventional armaments and equipment limited by the Treaty designated by the Russian Federation in its annual information exchange of 1 January 1996 as 'to be removed', until such time that a declared site inspection confirms that such equipment has been removed.


4. Subject to paragraphs 5 and 6 of this Section, Ukraine shall, upon provisional application of this Document, accept each year, in addition to its passive declared site inspection quota established pursuant to Section II, subparagraph 10(D), of the Protocol on Inspection, up to a total of one supplementary declared site inspection, conducted in accordance with the Protocol on Inspection, at objects of verification located within the Odessa oblast.


5. The number of supplementary declared site inspections conducted at objects of verification pursuant to paragraph 3 or 4 of this Section shall not exceed the number of declared site passive quota inspections, established in accordance with Section II, subparagraph 10(D), of the Protocol on Inspection, conducted at those objects of verification in the course of the same year.


6. All supplementary declared site inspections conducted pursuant to paragraph 3 or 4 of this Section:

(A) shall be carried out at the cost of the inspecting State Party, consistent with prevailing commercial rates; and
(B) at the discretion of the inspecting State Party, shall be conducted either as a sequential inspection or as a separate inspection.

VI


1. This Document shall enter into force upon receipt by the Depositary of notification of confirmation of approval by all States Parties. Section II, paragraphs 2 and 3, Section IV and Section V of this Document are hereby provisionally applied as of 31 May 1996 through 15 December 1996. If this Document does not enter into force by 15 December 1996, then it shall be reviewed by the States Parties.


2. This Document, in all six official languages of the Treaty, shall be deposited with the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, as the designated Depositary for the Treaty, which shall circulate copies of this Document to all States Parties.